Henry speaks to the collective:

Henry speaks to us:

Truman now:

Truman remembers:

The Book of Abigail Rose:

Truman: Orthodoxy is blindness, and rebellion to it is captivity. Bound to establishment.
Abigail: Love is a major pinacle of experience, and therefor as impactful as the tangible. Bound to vulnerablity. People use Spirit to provide justification for this realtity. 
Henry: Unbounded self interest is isolating. Bound to self.
Omythreal: Consiouness is a localized pinicale of emergence. Bound identity and narrative. 

There is no liberation in abandoning establishment, vulnerability, self-interest, and identity. 

Originally there was more ephasis on Judith’s weakness and mistakes, in the theme. .


If I’ve learned one thing since meeting Henry, it’s this:

Existence is the primary self-evidence, as consequence of it being pre-requisite to all inquery, with it’s antithisis being subordinant to it, at the instance of it being profered as evidence.

Existence is not dependant on any dimensionality beyond 1. Making a single dimension more plausible than any given multitude of dimensions, with significance, infinite being included. 


The hyper-verse is one very large number, just as a file in a file system can be represented as just a very large number, in binary, or in hex, etc. Dimensionality is just an illusion of the number expressed in systems with a very high base, much higher than base-10 or hex. It is truly one-dimensional—a single number—though possibly irrational and non-repeating.  The third dimension, as it’s called, isn’t a 3 based expression, it is a googleplex based expression, which can give the localized impression of Euclidian space. Emergence happens in resonance with apparent intersection of the number upon itself when expressed at certain dimensionalities. Consciousness is emergant of massively parralell resonances, experiencing the illusion of dimensionality according to it’s respective scale. The more parralell, the greater illusion of dimensionality. Time is not a process of moving “forward”, or even the illusion of it, it is simply a particular emergent arrangment at a certain scale of dimensionality. Consiousness is not the number itself, nor is it a type of parser, quickly reading the number in sequence. It is not a specific segment of the number. It emerges from the interplay of desparate segments of the number.

The hyperverse is a single dimension, and the universe is a single irrational number along that dimension. 

Please anialite the foundation upon which the thesis of which the theme of my novel is based. Otherwise I will consider it sound and sane, and conttinue on with it being the basis upon which my communication is built.  [offered to readers of the book, not to those among my Facebook friends. Showboating, and peacocking is not friendly.] 



[There has always been the argument that the Universe doesn’t need an observer to exist. I am completely glossing past that.]
 
Existence is the primary self-evidence, as the first-most pre-requisite to all consideration, with the possibility of non-existence being anihilated by the aknowldegement that it’s being considered. 
The impossibe state of non-existence, therefor, establishes an immutable boundary upon possibilities, specifically excluding infinite possibilities, as well as zero possibilities. 
Consideration is no small thing—while not being the primary self-evidence—it is being asserted here as evident. It implies an agent. I assert myself as an agent worthy of establishing that there is something being considered. 
Existence, being self-evident yet bounded between zero possibilites, and infinite possibilities, which establishes that it has at least one dimension [how, be more specific. I’m trying to establish that the only possibility is a single dimension, therefor making mind unbounded by the contortions of space and time]
Making a single dimension, more plausible than any given multitude of dimensions, with significance, including infinite dimensions. 
The infinite is not found outside of existence itself, but within all the possible configurations of a single dimension. The Hyper-verse is therefor not a manifestation of infinite possibilities, but rather an expression of the infinite extent to which a single dimension can manifest itself. 


From what begins as an apparent tautological argument, emerges a clear distinction of the bounds of all possibilities. 






Gum is so awesome. it motivates the mouth to clean itself, relaxes the jaw, in turn providing extra capacity to the cavity containing our individual potential for neuro-placticty. I should learn to pop it, so I can eliminate the largest conflict in my budding marriage (namely my peve about gum popping). 


[ordaining the thesis with consequence is preamble to subsequent diferentiation.]

[is inquiry sufficient? or is t

I assert myself to be an agent of inquiry.  

[try not to use words for their own sake, but rather for the sake of the thesis.]
[ is this a thesis or a poem? wouldn’t poeticness be evidence of it’s worth?]

The Hyperverse is non-essential, and yet emergent of existence. 
Assuming, there is no ultimate meaning inherent in the existence of the Hyperverse. 
Just because our existence has no inherent meaning, does not mean we have no “value”. [de-jargonize “value”, to remove quotes.)
Consiousness can value itself without permission from ultimate meaning. 
Meaning is the reflection of self-consiousness. 
Being self-consious, satisfaction is derived from meaning.
Free-will is only a decision on the level 0f, and has only the power of, adding significance to meaning. 
Love is not the only satisfying meaning.
Love is a meaning that may lead to a more satisfying emergence.
Free-will is not a moment of choice in the present, it is the placing of arbitrary significance upon a given meaning to provide an attractor for our future behaviour. 
Athropomorphising meaning leads to the subjective-fictionalization of other agents, who could otherwise in-turn contribute to a more self-satisfactory meaning for both agents. 
Love is the un-founded recognition of other agents as being as deserving of satisfaction as our own self-consiousness. 

This is not the thesis of any one agent or collective within the work, it is the thesis of the work itself. 


A single dimension is more plausible than any given multitude of dimensions, with significance, infinite being included. 

Th reason why I want to freewrite right now is that I had a horrible day and I feel in the writing zone. I feel like I could write a symphony. Is fiction easier than code? Is code that writes it’s own fiction market a billion dollar idea? No. Silly. But it’s probably worth 20M though if it came with commited follow-thru.  

They should live in code, and in Blender. They should be characters in a living world. 

Fiction and animation are not the same. Fiction would be a Affiliate Marketing ploy to use machine learining for profit. Animation is entertainment worth sharing on YouTube. 

Go | Fiction
Python | Animation


…

When I just pause, I realize that a buziness, like Sling, that sells something for $20/mo (at a loss) to 1M people isn’t a huge feat. I could do the same with my own two hands. I am digging in the mine. Even still, 

I build an app that targets markets of a million US users or more. If limited by age, geo, ailment <—, hair color. 

The generic base of the app fits every ailment, but each app molds itself to the community. Most of the effort of development fits all markets, and yet the breadth of markets to choose frome is greater than one. ;)

Building an app/platform/service/virtual-micro-market or whatever worth consumers paying $20/mo for is exciting. It’s not a maybe on the side type thing. But 1 M people is tiny. 

5 serious conditions, each at least 1 M market from USA, 3% share, $20 for 12 months.  
5 (1,000,000*0.03*20*12) = 36,000,000

$7,200,005/yr 




Pictures of extreme facial expressions can be found all over the internet.  Make the characters expressive. 

She gives up something she loves, like the stage or dancing, and that's what is a lure away from the island.  She over romantisizes and so her husband seems boring and predictable.  Perhaps what he prepares should be small and meaningful rather than showy.  The setting can be the same, sunset under the tree, and the birds and fireworks can just be to throw her (and the audience) off the scent of the true and dear surprise... like my brothers' proposals. 

They come home after the sunset and he has built her a grand ornimated room, in her style, not his; a place where she can do the thing she loves, and thought she had given up.  Perhaps dancing with him. 

The great and spacious ship is a cathedral-like dirigible with many windows and adornments.

She is out fighting, and vulnerable, skin showing... armorless.  He is home, caring for things, in an exoskeleton. 

The phenomena can be all sorts of creatures.  I can be inspired by beetles, locusts, birds, fantasy beasts

She rides a squid, he has messenger birds. 

Write the backstory of why they chose a treehouse. 

She is sleek and spindlely... he is brutish. 

The island can look the same as my previous drawings.  Just put water in place of rock.  The rock is just inside the water... plants, coral. 

Her squid has a doghouse like home with a grass roof at the end of a pier.  


She wears a swimming cap.  And a jacket-like think that only covers her shoulders.  Think steampunk, but also think classic bathingsuit. 

three pillars are like yin and yang but include zero or tao or something.  I could build a new I ching from it. 










Part 1
Exposition. Truman wakes up to a normal family day. Lucy visits to help with a damaged reef, which appears to be the only real struggle at this point. We learn of the gate, the roles, the White Star, the Three Fountains, the family, and the creative powers that porters posses. Marcus passes through, only stopping for a meal. Lucy begins to tutor Summer. 
Part 2
There is an major battle with phenomena as the White Star passes, and similar battles as it returns multiple times, as well as other ships along the way.  We learn the depths of the fantasy and how it connects to the Admiral. Judith eventually leaves her post and finds and excuse to board the White Star: Truman has been nagging her to improve her skills and there is an opportunity on the ship, making it appear as if her intention is to please Truman. She desires the Admiral, but she has an empty affair with Peter. We find out that Summer is more mature than Lucy as she learns from Lucy during Lucy’s visits. We see Truman’s exceptional parenting. Judith is quite skilled at parenting too, but she isn’t as invested. 
Part 3
Judith returns to the tree — she is remorseful, but she fools herself into believing that the fantasy is still safe, that it will give her what she needs, the needs Truman has difficulty understanding. Judith and Truman first neglect the seriousness of the affair while they both linger in denial, and continue to sleep in the same bed. This doesn’t work for either of them and Judith moves from the tree, into a submersed habitat with Summer. Truman grieves.  Summer is very interested in aquatic life and cares for Judith’s squid, making the move more natural. Summer does most of the housework and is somewhat parentalized to fill Truman’s role in Judith’s life, this is somewhat enabling though Summer is too young to be aware of it. Judith isn’t a negligent parent; her actions are of least-resistance and natural-man, not blatant; the reader identifies. Summer diligently returns to the tree for education and helps Truman with Abigail. Truman struggles to forgive while Judith wrestles with what she wants, fluctuating in tides. Truman finds a friend in Lucy, and there is very limited romantic tension. Marcus visits, having been on a garden planet and out of touch. His visit heightens the situation as he clumsily tries to help. Truman ultimately forgives, but this leads up to the fact that Judith ultimately leaves.
Part 4
Truman’s parenting suffers as he is left to fill both roles, but he makes due, shouldering the load. We see him lash out at Abigail in misdirected anger and frustration, but it illustrates how his love for her has deepened. Marcus steps in for Judith, as sentinel, a hope that Truman will have help, even if he is left without a spouse. The reader never finds out if Marcus plans to stay, whether that arrangement works out or not, and they are left with some doubt about the situation due to Marcus’ nature. The subplots resolve, showing how Truman has grown.

Truman loses Judith — the central conflict, but there is resolution of the sub-plots. Life continues, though more difficult, as real life is after a divorce. The overall plot actually follows Truman’s growth; loosing Judith is just a major part of that. And the theme is that life is more complicated than it seems, and that life goes on amidst tragedy and large scale uncertainty when there is love to hold us together. 

Truman’s growing love for Abigail, through service.
Truman’s hobby is architecture, and he works on a building that progresses to completion. 
Marcus friendship with Truman, until he finally moves in with Truman in the end, after Judith leaves
The health of the reef
Autumn’s coming of age, and realization that her parents aren’t perfect, and Truman’s struggle to let her grow up. 

Calvin’s special spiritual gift. He can heal people, but he has to overcome his susceptibility to taking on other people’s emotions. 
Aaron’s crush on Alice, the way she leads him on, and how he finally grows out of it
Lucy’s simplistic world-view expanding as she realizes things aren’t as simple as they seem. She meet a man, and finally gives him a chance, though we never learn the outcome 
Gate resource depletion 
The larger scope of the phenomena battle emerges and comes to a head at the climax
Planetary water depletion, and Aaron’s fight to change it
Judith’s friendship with Sarah, which ends
The Admiral’s opinion of porters as it evolves
Peter’s stress as he tries too hard, (needs more subtlety) 
Truman learns emotional restraint. He starts out wearing his heart on his sleeve, to the point of being manipulative, but learns he can keep his emotions, he just has to bridle them. He learns timing. He thinks he is emotionally brave, but he is just outwardly emotional in a way that protects him. He learns to let other people have feelings, and to be emotionally honest.
Truman learns to value himself. He learns that his worth doesn’t come from the approval of others. 
Truman learns the power of structure and habit in life. (Nah. This is too autobiographical and doesn’t really apply to Truman)
Truman goes through the stages of grief and on a journey that leads back to wholeness. 


I have Alice in Wonderland on in French, in the background. I am thinking about my fascination with stories like this—Spirited Away, etc. I suppose that it's because I think the world I experience, and the world as it's explained to me, don't match up. And sometimes the otherworldly seems more accurate. But I also think there is something about the child-like wonder that exotic worlds evoke. 

I think it will be satisfying to include certain super-natural elements, even if they are mostly explained. Dune just came to mind. Paul does discover that he is a chosen one. It doesn't detract, it's just elemental. I think I shouldn't worry about it, and just create the world and the story and see what happens. 

Another element I'm struggling with is the desire to have a heroic character. An Alexander, an Usel, a Neo, an Ender, a Harry Potter, a Frodo—a chosen one. Someone who is greater than their circumstances would suggest. And yet, I think such stories might be just ego feeding—anti-christ myth perpetuating. 

I have a desire to not be too satirical, and yet I don't want to feed what I see as evil either. 

I block my creativity by worrying so much. 

The problem is that I like messiah stories. It's not just that I like heroic characters. A character who rises to a challenge is on a different tier than one who is somehow chosen, one who the entire world hinges on. 

I've been exploring the idea of having a major conflict hinge on a decision of Truman's. The idea that he holds in his power the fate of the world, not because he is chosen, but because he is in the right place at the right time. And that it is through his simple goodness, that he is able to rise to the challenge. 

I'm not sure it's as satisfying to that sense of the heroic, but I suppose that's what I hope to conjure through it, is a different satisfaction. A tribute to those people who silently toil for others, and in doing what is right. 

Truman goes from a position of powerlessness, too small in a big war, to a position of power through circumstance. I think we will all be put into that position in one way or other. While almost no one is put into the traditional role of hero. 

I suppose that I worry about captivating the reader. Perhaps I feel that I'm not up to the greater challenge it would be to write Truman as a simple hero. 

I do like the idea of Truman being a central steady point, while all the world comes and goes all around him. He is not a soldier, but soldiers pass through his gate. He is not an adventurer, but they travel through. There is something satisfying about that, but also challenging. 

I do not want the story to be narrated by Truman however. I want there to be some mystery as to what motivates Truman. His actions speak—he says little. 

I guess the satire is in the point that if each of us would just choose to stop participating, the evil powers in the world would have no power. It's a somewhat tired theme, but one that I feel connected to. 

I think my interest in paralleling Canadian history is not a matter of satire, it's just that I think there is a lot more interesting history than most people know about, and a lot of it reads like an alternate history of the US. 

I bet it's easy for Canadians to blame everything on the US, and not take action themselves. The fact that they consume more power per capita speaks to this somewhat. 


As I think about Canada's history as an alternate history of the US and think about the natives there, I think there is an interesting story to tell. I imagine multiple tribes of people, with distinct cultures, being a central to the unfolding of the story of the war and that is satisfying to me. Issues regarding native peoples have always been of interest to me, and I think it would be fun to explore.




The great-and-spacious building is self-inflicted debt for Vanity's sake. The clear fountain is the Internet, only downstream is it filthy. 

There is a porter word for Wonton Envy. There is a word for borrowing just for show. The Fountain is the realm where we instantly choose our focus, and are with any others who chose to be there. 

We are only trapped in mortality to keep us from naively choosing to commune with the ultimately self-destructive. 


The porters have a entire continent there. There are solid islands far apart. They sail, or take a portal from island to island. The rock planet has lots of water, the gas giant moon has very little water. Lakes and small seas, but no oceans. Most life lives near a lake. The moon is an island of the gas giant that lifted to the sky. It is in synchronous orbit, and is not spheracle. It lifted from the gas to the anstroid belt. It's a chemical cap that formed on the top of a storm in the gas giant. Like jupiter's storm forming a thickening crust, hardening like bone, and then lifting at a certain point of the right velocity. Then men settled on it, and made it a prison, until other islands started popping up fromt the gas. Then people started wanting to really move there. 

Mostly the vain and the prisoner, occupy it until the rise. 

The Guild and the Briggers imprisoned there. 


Once again. The earth like planet has oceans. The Titan like moon has lakes. In the story, Titan begins terrestrial, and earth begins telestial. Titan remains terrestrial, and earth becomes celestial. The Moon becomes a terrestrial. The locks are neutral.   The telestial choose to leave the system when a rouge guild passes through the system.

I'll not use Earth and titan, but rather let capable people make that comparison themselves. I would rather be protected in a fictional system. I would rather that part of the conversation be veiled in metaphor, so that the deeper naritave can be more controversial without raising unwarranted ire. 

I think of the very brave Knight in Journey Quest who kills more than necessary to bask in his ignorance and vain bravery. I don't want him to get it. I don't want to attract his attention. I think of Ted Baxter. I think of Pop Culture. I would rather be veiled in metaphor to escape being brought up in discussion by mainstream cynicism and vanity that I want to satirize. If the metaphor can become mainstream it will be because true Zion has prevailed.

Truman is versed in his heritage like Hugh Nibley. Judith enjoys the inheritance of it, but doesn't practice her religion enough to stay sealed to her heritage. Judith's fall is what happens when an Eve dies spiritually. Cora's husband's fall is what happens when an Adam dies spiritually. Truman and Cora symbolize what happens when Adam and Eve are obedient. They overcome the temptation to follow lies down to the surface, except for only allowing Cora, one passage through the gates to get to Truman, but it is port to port travel, not port to surface, so there is no lie she doesn't bring with her, only travel.

Travelers are plauged by the temptation to lie when they go from port to surface. 

It is a lie that draws them to the surface. A promise that is never fullfiled, until the celestial is formed. 

I need something to name the kingdoms. 

Porters naively took to the sky when surface to port travel was introduced, and they could see clearly, by example, what a port to surface crossing did to a person. Only porters believe this. 

The part that's missing from this is the Architect. Sci-fi is primed for an architect. It's a ripe metaphor. But what if that Architect were loving instead of divisive. 

Porters believe in evolution. Surface people believe that the existence of ports prove that we came from off-world.

Porters believe that The Architect created a DNA fuse of blossoming from a school into a paradise. 

In the actual theology of the porters, there is no consciousness between death and the arrival of Zion. 

Surface people believe we came from the stars via portal and are left here to die. And porters believe we came from the dirt, and will someday be visited by Zion, from the stars. It's not a direct correlation to our theology. It differs in the fact that prison and paradise happen in mortality, and that the metaphor of the planets covers what Mormons believe to be the spirit world. The Phenoms are the closest thing in the story to a spirit in a spirit world, but once freed, it is not tied to the volition of it creator. 

Penoms start possessing creatures. This is what escalates the battle with them, and why even non-believers have taken up the campaign to erraticate them. 

People buy creations from porters like they buy Amish-made. It's not that they agree culturally with the Porters, it's that the craftsmanship is so fine. In fact, it is so fine, that only the wealthy can truly afford them. Except in the cases of extraordinary gifts to poor. 

Truman's decision is something that cuts off certain port travel to prevent upward travel, to higher spherses. 

The architect teaches porters how to bring plastic phonemes to the surface, without lies. 

I don't want to talk directly about lying. Only by example and metaphor. As with other spiritual language. This is a geeky metaphor for good people without the gospel, not a platform for being right, to spite those who find spiritual language distasteful. it's language for the pure of heart among those. 

A group of surface porters join the military rebellion lead by the White Star. It is an offensive military action to remain keeping the uncouth as slaves. 

I will amplify the struggles of the outer pressures in each gender Man weak in the way woman is, woman weak in the way men are. Because we are all weak, and we shouldn't use gender as a way to belittle people. So we as readers would find the chance to contemplate gender stereo types in a way that's not just full reversal. 

Judith is tall, truman is short, Cora is short, Cora's husband is tall. It's race, but I do not want there to be a parallel to race sterotypes. The tribes are porters, they live in harmony, except among robbers. 

Satan builds his own idol, and follows it out of the realm of the physical. Into the world of the imaginary. The war centers around the protection of his idol. Until the idol projects itself through the portal, into space, and leave them in their kingdoms.

Truman stops the military vessel, the White Star, from following the idol in persuit of the enemy. Judith is ultimately on the ship, in pursuit. 

Truman knows that the military will destroy themselves in the pursuit of the idol into space, and knows that those that actually succeed in following the idol, destroy themselves.

And he knows that if they just let the idol go into space, they will be rid of it forever. He goes against the entire narrative of the previlaint winds, and does not open the lock, allowing the idol to escape into space forever. 

Satan is unbound to allow his escape. 


Satan is a dragon of a non-newtonian substance, in the center of the earth, living on a cooled iron island, among the liquid at the core of the earth. 

He is forming a storm on Jupiter for his escape through Athos into space. 

June -> Tio -> <-Lua <-Reeda
 
It's earth in the future, but only unrecognizably so. There isn't a continuous path of advancement right up until them. There is the ocean rise first. Most surface tellings of history don't see past the surviors of the great ocean rise, there is no recorded history before then, and they deduce that the survivors were sufficiently advanced enough that they must have come trough a port. Stories before the rise are all mythology. 
(No, this is an different star system.)

There is a completely different balance of power now. The satire is all inside out and twisted because the shift of power is so substantially different. 

The dragon maintains the earth's poles until he escapes in his idol, which puts the earth into a direction of spin that makes the world into belize, everywhere.  The balance of fresh water shifts, and the world is littered with beautiful islands everywhere, instead of big continents. The dragon was keeping the continents in their shape, and were keeping the plates from floating in a more balanced way which eliminates earthquakes. The earth is meant to be in balance, it was designed as lilly pad islands of tectonic flow, surrounded in tropical paradise. Each Lily has it's trunk down through the earth onto it's core, where pure intelligence across universes is collected, and stored in bursting rays of data. And each has a central portal, to Lua, and Tio, and Jude, and to systems abroad. 

This is a story of winning, by letting go. About being strong enough to let evil destroy itself. Not a story about fighting an enemy in battle, but of letting an enemy collapse under it's own fallacy. 

Systems abroad, that's how they say it. 

The distance of orbits has changed, making the sun much smaller in the sky than it would be now on Titan. 

Luna, Lua, Luan, Wan, Aum, and in a fit of romance: Ammé, 

The French and Canada become dominant after the rise. 

There is one more bead on the beads of bubbles blown by Vishnu, before there is no more cycle and stasis is reached. It has been bouncing between reincarnations until there is just one more. The post rise, the last actual worlds, after the breaking of the trial runs, the last judgement. The last time to choose.

This time our memory is not erased, we just live with the natural consequences of following our desires to fruition. 

Our system is  a spiritual lung, the inspiration of Vishnu is a new reincarnation. The lung will be a living, self sustaining thing, with just one last breath of life.

The Celestial who remain porters, will be able to travel through the galactic body, and through the body create worlds beyond their islands. 

This is where the theology gets cloudy for me. Why do they create worlds beyond their islands. Is the community of charity that rewarding? What is the purpose of eternal offspring? I mush search this out and tell a story that I can believe. 

That's the point here. It's not to tell a story about the gospel to be preachy, except  by example. It's to tell myself a narrative that I can imagine to be true. To overcome the destructive narrative I live by. A narrative that makes me brave enough to do what is right. A narrative worth being valliant for. 

I feel completely unable to be valiant, and I think that it stems from the fact that the prevailant narrative is complete falicy, almost entirely. 

I feel blind in choosing sides. This is an attempt to create a metaphor that expresses the truths my soul feels are foundational, and see if believing in these foundational things passionately creates a motivation for being valiant. 

I feel compelled to lie-check myself in the telling of my testimony. I want to share the truth with my brothers and sisters, of my testimony of my own experience, hoping it will resonate with them because it's true. I'm prepared to take 14 years to do it. 

14 years. That's how long it takes to completely rid yourself of lies of which your entire body was convinced. The true term of alcoholism. That's how long I write the book. This is my mission. I am to record my testimony in the form of fiction, to speak to those who speak in fictional literature, because it is there that we share long form testimony about the nature of human imagination. 

At year 7, or there statistically, I will feel an absence of substance to the lies I once told my body, and I will be freed to, over the course of another 7 years feel the absence of substance to the lies I held onto for the previous 7 years. 

I have no idea how spiritual I'll be, or if I can rid myself of many lies, but I do believe that a lie cannot be maintained when constantly presented with the truth, eventually it's obvously a lie. There is a truth behind 7 years that we find. What does ever change through those slow molting processes, is your spirit. It is not free of entanglement to the body. It is more freed after 14 years though. 

The ports don't go in one jump. The porters don't see the shrinking and growing without using machines. It's like helicopter blades. They come in and out of visibility more and less so at various speeds of vibration, until the vibration is tuned in, and the ship remains physically at the receiving port, and the water is raised again. 

The ship riders see the port come and go, from giant to small for 7 bounces that seem like 7 weeks to travelers, on return bounces, they see themselves at the bottom of the lock. But time above appears more and more frozen as they approach the center bounce. 

This is getting so cool. I can imagine the drama this makes possible. 

I see truman, flashing a signal at the exact time necessary for the travelers to see it suspended there in space and time. 

The matriarchal narrative, told through male characters, and the patriarchal narrative told through female characters. Not a reversal of gender, just an erratacating of some destructive stereo-types. I'll develop independent stereo-types for them to be released from. And mix properties around in the spaces left by the vacuums of previous lies of stereo-types, the stereotypes shift because they are not true. They are epic lies. 

When a porter maintains a lie through the jump, It may possible that they amplify the negativity potential for the Phenoms. The Phenoms can get through a gate more successfully, so to speak, when there are porter lies in the mix. 

It's like it shortens the distance of the jump, and so even less impatient demons can be formed. 



Lockports. 

My brain is flowwwing. I am loving this. I am fueled in my creativity when I believe what I am doing is fundamentally good. It's a weekness which expresses my pride in being able to discern good and evil which blinds me. A 14 year testimony is plenty of time to extract the lies that will plauge me if I leave them in. I will let my idealism for purity fuel a true testimony of honest experience, even if told through the admittedly fictional. 

Read:
- Lehi's vision
- Revelations
- Adam and Eve
- Creation narratives
- The words of Christ. Create a world which testifies of his true gospel, and imagines what other human conditions might exist in which his teachings would fell nations and establish peace. 

If I make His message central to my message, it will naturally lead people to him.

What I plan to do, though I don't currenly have confirmation that it's right, is to focus on my mission, and wait for a Lord's daughter to be presented to me. I will invite opportunities for introductions but will wait for someone socially compatible with me, because social behavior takes very long to change. 

When I focus on women directly, it blurs my thinking and lures my mind to where it shouldn't go. I will focus my life on good works, using my talents, and let the spirit guide me toward a companion. 

I don't ever seem to actually do this. I get caught in spirals of fantasy, rather than engaging with real people. Maybe that's who I am. Maybe there's not much wrong with that. Maybe the isolation is part of nurturing my talent, to be ready to accomplish my errand. A narrative worth being valiant for, almost. I am currently more valiant in the preservation of my fantasies. 

A faithful retelling of my testimony in a setting of imagination. Not a lie, a translation, a generous hearted narrative. For the completely mad, in their prisons. 




Lying which is generally tempting in Anonymity, is what turns the water dirty. We choose what we focus on. We wrap ourselves in the blanket of Lying to Ourselves and pass through to the realm of Lies without even noticing. We have to choose not to let deception into our hearts if we wish to avoid the destructive force of bathing in the fountain downstream of the realm of lies. 

Self-deception.


I'm wondering about how much magic, or distortion of perceived reality I should do. I love stories with magic in them, but there seems to be a clash between a world with intricate science and a world with unexplained magic. I think it might bother me if I was reading something like that.

What I CAN do however, is have bizarre, unexplained things with dramatic irony.

I have been wondering about the idea of having the portal realm, where left and right are reversed, be somehow a sort of "looking glass" world. It's a vague thought, but I think what it illustrates is my desire to have mind bendiness. 

Perhaps the mind-bendiness doesn't have to be between different realms in the universe I create, but rather between the reader's world and the world I create. 




The central dialog is a philosophical dissection of what differentiates Believers from non-Believers. It's about framing the decision Truman makes, framing it to illustrate the depth of the decision. It's the decision a believer makes. It's about Truman having what it takes to make that choice, when presented with it.

The interaction of Truman and Ammon, is what defines the difference between a true believer, and the culturally involved. 

Love. It's what doesn't work out when Judith decides. 

1 Judith must decide, and leaves.
2 Truman must decide, and believes. 

1 Truman gives up Judith.
2 Truman gives up the idol. 

1 Truman feels no control when she leaves. 
2 Truman becomes free. 

1 Judith gives up rules.
2 Judith becomes dependant. 




I saw a group of men putting tar on the road—it made me think of the guys in Dune who follow the big teleporter guys in their big tanks. It made me think that I want to get in the habit of seeing the world through the eyes of my fiction. It would be fun to weave all the little interesting things I come across into my stories. I saw them and pictured a crew of men making their way across the edge of the loc, to give a sense of scale and atmosphere. 



Athos is a lockport owned partly by the city who put it into orbit, and partly by a the Federated Galaxy Seafarers, and partly by Truman, a Porter Conductor, on the upper lock of the inter-planetary gate Athos. Athos is a bridge from one planet to another, that bridge is a lock. A lock allows sea ships of all sizes into it's pound—a gated off piece of canal. Athos is where ships go to sail around planets and systems.

The Federated Galaxy Seafarers are a self organized, group of inter-planetary lock owners, with a communal interest in improving inter-planetary travel for everyone. 

These ships are actual seafaring vessels. They do not fly through space, they travel on water, water that is tied in through quantum resonance to allow travel by ships, from planet to gate, from gate to gate, from gate to planet. It's a canal system. You enter a canal planet-side, then enter a lock, the water in the lock lowers, and all the ships in it,  lower with it. Meanwhile, a lock on the gate is lowering as well. A ship in the lock appears to shrink toward the middle of the water as the water lowers. As if traveling toward a vanishing point, not on the horizon, but directly below. Until it is so small and far away looking, that it disappears into vanishing point, and the water is raised again. From the ship the walls of the lock seem to reach up from the distant horizon, stretching up around the dome of the sky, seeming almost to reach the gas giant directly overhead, 

Athos floats above the planet, not all the way up in space, it is visible from the ground. It's ocean looks like a cloud, but very high in the sky. Above the clouds. There is a lock on the planet below. Ships enter the planet lock, and then are transported to Athos, where they are then transported to one of two other locks at one of the other ports. 

Like the moon, it looks like it just sits at the edge of the sky. How big would it have to be to be the size of the moon, from the surface's perspective? With it sitting just at the edge of space.

What is the lock like? I have romanticized this idea of a lock, but I can't picture it. I just like the idea of actual ships so much. More than spaceships. What if it's a lock, but vertical. 

There are two halves of a sphere, one at each port, and the ship is passing on a bridge between them. 

What if it is like a roller coaster loop. The ship goes 'uphill' until it's upside-down on the other side. 

What is it about the lock? it's the metal. It's the patience. It's the low-tech-ness. 

The ship is temporarily in both places at once. 

The ship enters a full lock. The water is lowered, it goes through a portal at one end of the lowered lock, and then comes into a portal at the lowered lock on the other side, and then the water rises, and then the gate is opened and the ship continues onto the water at the new port. 

In an actual lock, the ship is traveling at a higher level, and enters the lock. Both gates are shut, and then the water is slowly lowered to the lower height, and then the lower gate is opened and the ship passes through. 





There is a dragon inside the gas giant, 




The gate is that shrinking in your head. It's that voice of someone in the same room as you, whom you can't hear through a head cold. It's that distance you feel. It's that "who's there?" that's so distant that it's never really said, but still thought to be there.

—Ammon's Diary



One doesn't remember what happens to one during a gate trip. 

People ride cruise ships, intentionally commit adultry, knowing that they won't remember whether it happened or not. Pretty convincing when you don't have to lie about knowing what happened. 

Militant factions have abused the ports for unethical power grabs. It helps that all crew members have their memories wiped after the voyage.

The memory wipe is a great plot device. 

Traditionally, porters don't travel. They marry on their one trip half-way through a gate. The get married and then have the actual marriage wiped from their memory. But the required trust in each other, and in themselves is what the ceremony is meant to symbolize. 

People who travel a lot seem to live short lives, but they actually experience lives just as long, they do however, forget the journey when they arrive, so it's an experience, leaving you with no memory of the experience. 

Most porters actually travel, but less often, for the most part. Then there are outliers like Marcus, who travel for a living. 

There are 2 ports, and two planets settled by humans. They are different yet interconnected civilizations, like east and west. 

Both have native populations. 

This forgetting is the wonderland. As dreams are to Inception, as the rabbit hole in the Matrix.

The second planet, to be habitable to man. Terraformed by man. First opened as a prison, and porters originally the guards. The porters got run off of the planet by the prisoners, until the prisoners' children live in tribes, innocent of their ancestors anti-social behavior.  Though some prejudices remain. 

Eventually a resort city-state was established and the culture of travel began developing. It started with an influential person famously covering up some personal and political intrigue, that it became a guilty pleasure of the rich and indulgent. 

By now, the prison planet has become Canada. 



Athos orbits Mercea, a moon smaller than earth, but bigger than our moon.  People there are taller, but weaker, obviously. Judith's bloodline is from Mercea, but she was born on another of Mercea's ports. She is very tall. Truman is from another port orbiting around the planet on the other side of Athos port. Athos connects Mercea with Quedsilva, which has slightly greater gravity. This accounts for the difference in their body size. 

Mercea orbits Pleach, a gas giant, a star far enough away that it doesn't fill the sky with blue the way ours does. It looks like a giant star in the sky and gives just a little bit more light than the moon. 

Mercea has it's own thermal mass.

The star is Vectra. 

- Athos - port orbiting Pleach between it and Mercea.
- Mercea - habitable moon of Pleach
- Pleach - gas giant
- Vectra - First star

- Quedsilva - port
- Baba - earth-like planet 

Athos hangs from Pleach like the basket below a hot air balloon. It always stays between Pleach and Mercea. Mercea spins like a treadmill below Athos. And Vectra passes below Mercea like a greater wheel which passes below Mercea. They see it as it passes out from behind Pleach, before it sets on the horizon of Athos. 

I love this. I can visualize it so well. I feels brilliant. I think the reader will be able to picture it, and it gives Athos the feeling of place. It's not an outer space port, it feels cozy in a way. 



This is becoming very complicated and I love it. I actually think I can keep it held together. My mind works well like this. 
This is like my Lord of the Rings. It’s a sort of allegory, but not a direct literal retelling. 
The structure of the book can be based on the structure of the Theology, while there is a human story unfolding at the same time. 
Having a forum like this is like a sigh of relief for my mind. I  have a place to put these thoughts. A safe place. A place where I am the only one who has to understand it, but where I have many many pages to unfold it to others in a very controlled way. 

I kind of like the idea of each chapter starting with a short interaction between the three doctors. Like Ender’s Game, or The Gods Themselves... if I remember right.
Anyway, the connection between the discovery by The Doctors, and the life of Truman, can be like a chiasmus.  It can further illustrate the spiritual/physical link. 
How?
The Doctors start out as students, their low point. Truman starts out in a great relationship with Judith, his high point. The Doctors discover the power, their height, when Truman loses Judith, his lowest point. In the end the doctors end up being fallible less-idealized humans, and Truman’s life doesn’t end in a neat and tidy way. They seem to start at a similar level: Truman’s high is somewhat comparable to the doctor’s low. Then they go in totally opposite directions.  Then in the end, there is a harmony in the fact that life isn’t neat and tidy, but it works out. 
So at the end, Truman’s growth is his redemption, and there is a realization that his growth is possible because of spiritual power.  The condescending of the Doctors. Hmm. In what way? Maybe it’s the point when the Doctors decide to give their discovery away. They decide it should be for everyone, not just their own gain.  A decision that reaches into the future, directly to Truman. 
Charity and the gift culture. Open source as an analogy for Charity, the true art of being, in mutual eternal coexistence. 
Aria talks the other two doctors into giving away their discovery, which is why she represents Charity. Love, unselfishness, is what ties everything together. 
It’s not just a happy accident that things follow this pattern. That the symbols unfold so symmetrically. The Gods designed it this way. 
The Doctors live in a time somewhat contemporary to us. 

I’m going to write a novel — because I want to.  I want to write something that I would want to read, not something to please others. 
There is no set way to write a novel.  It will, however, take persistence, planning, learning and discipline. 
It’s about a family, living on an space outpost, and defending it from mysterious creatures, and the parents’ struggle to keep their marriage together. 
There is action throughout, as Judith fights the phenomena, and as Truman cares for the children, including their education, while operating the gate. 
The central conflict is masked at first. Judith is immersing herself in fantasy, as Truman fails to be very attentive.  We discover the depth of her fantasy and she cheats on Truman, really digging into the core of the matter.  The central conflict is her decision whether to leave him or not; and his struggle to forgive.  Just because it’s the central conflict, doesn’t mean it has to be the constant focus, or even that it has to occupy the bulk of the content; it can be like real life in the way that we keep such things out of the forefront of our minds.  I want the readers to wonder what’s going to happen, to get invested — but this isn’t just a touchy-feely relationship story.




What sort of situation would put the porters at war with the rest of the world? --put them on opposite sides? Everyone relies on the porters, but in what way could they try and take over the porters?
Slavery?
Perhaps it’s not the porters who go to war. Perhaps there is some other helpless group and the porters are the only ones who come to their aid.	
I think the battle with the phenomena will give the story adventure. But if the phenomena come from ships, from everywhere and nearly everyone, how can they be fought? it’s much like evil in our world today. Can I actually give any insight into how the war will be fought? The Book of Mormon can. Modern prophets can. ...If I make phenomena more closely parallel the evils of today. But I’m not sure that’s the story I want to tell. 
Perhaps the porters are against war entirely. Perhaps the case for war can actually be made. Perhaps porters know they must fight, and it’s Marcus who hides behind his idealism. 
What about the story of the king of Egypt that left and built a temple in a cliff. What about a war fought by hoards of masons, against a pharaoh. 
In Lord of the Rings, there are dwarves and elves, besides the hobbits. Porters don’t have to be singular against the world. 

The war doesn’t have to be cut and dry. It’s not just good vs. evil. I want to present the readers with situations and conflicts that they may have a hard time negotiating in their own mind. 

How can Truman be the main character and be a hero and loose his wife and take care of his kids all at once? I suppose that is what faces us, as fathers today. Perhaps Summer must show her bravery and step in as mother to some degree. Can he take a journey without ever leaving home? 
There is some major battle that Truman is left to fight, which seems insurmountable, but he eventually rises to the task, with the help of others. Everyone in the family must even do their part, do what they have to. The things that seem to be his problems in the beginning, never get solved, but never turn out to be the problems he thought they would be.
Someone is trying to take Calvin away. Because of his gift. But there is some reason why doing so would hurt the family, hurt Calvin, and help some unforgivable cause. Like River from Firefly maybe?
Getting Judith out of the way is actually just a negotiating tactic, to weaken the resistance toward the idea of giving Calvin up.   
What sort of enemy? What sort of enemy do I hate.. would I fight against?

Sub-plots
	-	a race
	-	a party
	-	a stage play

artifacts with history

Thick black, burnt and red, the sky dropped it’s head; 
sickly aching it was   
A, B, CC; DDD. EEEEE : eeeee. ddd; cc, b, a.
Stopped, dead, she sank (he sank too). The reason was clear: all reason had died.  He’d held firm — she’d fled, done, maimed.    
Thick, black, it was, burnt and red, hot and smoldering, billowing from fire, ending peace.
Black, then white, are all I see, in my infancy, reaching out to me (helps me see).
I embrace my desire 

Time is reckoned from the moment that the energy source is discovered. That’s the meridian.
The Doctors start as students, they make the discovery in their mid 30’s, about 15 years or so pass. So their chapters start in -15 YR
Truman is born 3008 YR, he is 35 when the story begins, so: 3043 YR

Oil, plastic, corn, war, and water. 
Pollutants, personal-health, necessities of life, ecosystem health
The gate power, the ubiquitous power source, removes the gasoline and energy-crisis part of the equation, which leaves the other issues behind oil more naked.
I want to eliminate the obvious “green” issues, in order to emphasize what is more often overlooked. WHY? Not to preach, but because it interests me, and I hear about it all the time. This gives me a forum to process my ideas and thoughts.

Obvious:
	-	Gasoline for cars
	-	Recycling
	-	War

Overlooked:
	-	Gas for shipping
	-	clean drinking water

There is a certain kind of hopelessness in these issues.  I want to leave it that way. I don’t think there are easy answers, or even knowable answers. I’m not proposing a way to fix it all.
The struggle and impotence of great designers and planners, and the informed individual is more of the subject, rather than a solution.
The gate reef is in danger


What if I keep the entire thing on one planet. I like that. The idea of space travel could be talked about, but still as yet to be achived. The only thing ‘off planet’ would be the in-betweens. 
Admiral Wesson could be like Sherlock Holmes in his MMA and parkour skills. 
I would love to resolve the anacronism of particle physics with steam-punk. Such as Golden Compass dust. Or Holmes using musical theory to get bees to spiral counter-clockwise. I’m not limited by earth physics. Music theory, fractal mathematics discovered entirely differently, 
The science isn’t a bother for the reader, it’s a fascination. Don’t bludgen them with it, but don’t shield them from it either. Make it fun. If I find it fun, so will some readers. Jurrasic park had a bit of science in it. 
My idea that the mandlebrot set is just a parabola on the complex plane, and a parabola is just a conic section, then perhaps some different method of connecting the two, rather than modern mathematics, could be devised.
Conic sections have been discussed since 300 BC. I think that gives plenty of room for a reasonable timeline. 
Madelbrot on the cartesian plane is 2^n+1? The most important open problem in comlpex dynamics may be “density of hyperbolicity”. 
A number sequence based on the fibbinaci sequence, and without the concept of zero.
not 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
but 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13
But what if I put 4 apples on the table? How many are there?
1 and 3
Fibinacci coding is a numbering system based on the number set. 
The evolution of such a number system would not be devised for convieniece, but rather as a reflection of the philosophical view of reality: that there is no zero, and that 2 items aren’t actually 2 items until a third is added, and that 3 items aren’t actually 3 items until 2 are added. This comes from the belief that the idea of isolation is impossible, and that only through relationship, or discourse, can meaning or value be established. 
Not only does the idea of 0 not exist, but 1 is considered to be a theoretical number, due to the fact that in reality, 1 can only be counted by another, an observer, and therefor 1 is always at least 2. 0 is impossible, and 1 is used as a convience, whereas in reality, there is always an observer to represent one. So putting one apple on the table, is actually 2, or the first 2 numbers in the numbering sequence. As the fibinacci numbers grow, they approach Phi.
There are no discrete numbers, there is no 3, just as there is no 1. There are only ratios. 1:1, 1:2, 2:3, 3:5, 
1:1, 1:2, 1:1|1:1, 1:1|1:2, 1:2|1:2, 1:1|2:3, 1:2|2:3, 1:2|1:2|1:2, 2:3|2:3, 1:1|1:1|1:1|2:3, 1:2|1:2|2:3, 
Ratios admit relationship, and nothing can be without relationships. 1 is imaginary. 







2 = .o. 
3 = .o: 
4 = .o.|.o.
5 = :o:.
6 = .o:|.o:
7 = .o.|:o:.
8 = .:o::.
9 = .o.|.o.|:o:.
10 = :o:.|:o:.
11= .o:|.:o::.
12= .o.|.o.|.:o::.
13= .::o::::

1 = 1/1
2 = 1/1 + 1/1
3 = 2/1 + 1/1
4 = 2/1 + 2/1
5 = 3/2



1/1
1/2
2/3
3/5
5/8

x : y^2

1/1 = 1
2/1 = 2
3/2 = 1 1/2
5/3 = 1 2/3
8/5 = 1 3/5
13/8 = 1 5/8
21/13 = 1 8/13
34/21 = 1 13/21
55/34 = 

I’m not sure I like the space port idea.  When it was just two characters, it was okay, but now that I want to add a lot more characters, the only other locations are in outer-space. I don’t like the feeling of that. It’s too foreign.
I’d have to think up new science behind the gate, but perhaps it would be better if the gate were on a planet.
Then, Marcus could actually be out in the woods, somewhere on the same planet.
The idea of the gate being like a lock would also make more sense. 
I do like the idea that porters are peculiar in some way, and I liked the idea that it had to do with isolation and life span somehow. 
Perhaps a longer life-span would be more appropriate — but then everyone would want to be a porter, because they could live longer. Maybe I should drop the life span idea. The original reason for it was because I wanted them to grow old quickly and still be in love, because I love the idea of two old people in love.  But that story line isn’t really part of it now.  Unless I make it happen everyday, like the original idea. 
Growing old every day would be more appealing to life long monogamous couples. It would also be something that Judith would be less and less likely to want, the more she romanticized her life.
There would still be the issue of the children. Perhaps the children would be safe because they aren’t doing the actual gate work.
How does having it on a planet, and having a lock effect the idea that Judith fights underwater, and that they can create their own world. Those are pretty important concepts to possibly discard, or to drastically change.
Perhaps I could stick with outer space, but just use voice and style to overcome the alien nature of space, and still make it feel warm and human. 
Just because they are on a gate, doesn’t mean that the other characters can’t have lives on planets. That would be the norm actually. And I don’t have to limit my writing to just the gate. We could visit Marcus in the woods somewhere, even if he’s not on the same planet.
There is just some sort of Star Wars / Star Trek geekyness about all people who visit the gate being in space ships.
Maybe everyone who visits the gate, actually comes from the gate itself. I like that. They don’t come flying in from someplace else, they actually enter from one side of the gate, and leave from the other. That also makes the lock idea work.
Maybe they are in some sort of in-between world created by the anomaly of gate travel. 
Nice.
Now I just need to work out what the gate is like — to work it out spatially. 
Ships start on one planet, then visit the gate, then arrive on another planet — very cool. There is no space travel at all. That has great texture to it. 
They are actual water vessels.  Water is an essential part of the gate process. Quantum resonance is how transport actually happens.
If you leave the tree, and go strait in one direction, you reach the other side of the tree.  There is no curvature like a planet. If you go deep enough in the water, you come to the surface. Maybe. Probably not. Maybe as you go deeper, the water gets thinner and thinner until it becomes sky. What creates the phenomena then? I think it should be a similar reason as before. They are created in the same way the island itself was created. They are created because the island is an in-between place. Quantum resonance moves matter, and true spirits, but not the demon or angel type spirits, so to speak. Hmm. 
Perhaps the island is surrounded by water because the phenomena are formed of water, as a side effect of the gate. There has to be enough water to catch whatever phenomena may also come through the gate.
I need to think through the process of how a gate is created. How is this in-between space at it’s initial genesis? What is it like? Maybe that’s where the creative part comes in. The porters have a certain amount of material to work with, and they can form it. Perhaps the island itself is a sort of phenomena. It’s not actually soil and a tree and stuff, it’s actually just taking on the properties of those things. It’s non-newtonian in a sense. It’s programed to be what it is. If they then reprogram phenomena, how does this effect the equilibrium of the water to plastic? Maybe plastic is like fuel for the ships — it’s what brings them through the gates. They leave with the same amount they came with. Part of the porters’ job is to create neutral plastic to refuel the ship. 
The ship leaves a planet with neutral plastic, arrives at the gate with positive and/or negative plastic, and leaves with neutral plastic. Inside the gate, plastic can be changed. That’s what the battle with phenomena actually is: it’s the process of neutralizing plastic. 
I need better words than positive and negative. Like productive or destructive, organized or chaotic. Maybe porters don’t neutralize plastic, they harmonize it. Hmm. 
Maybe ports don’t have to be zero-sum. Maybe the vastness of the water is the reserves meant to cover the fluctuations between the two types. 
Many people are depleting the gate resources, but they don’t care. Porters try and educate people on how to keep the gates from drying up, but people think they don’t actually know what they are talking about. 
Can a porter be sustained on plastic alone? 
They think they have plenty of water on their planets to create more gates, but they are just being ignorant. 
This is becoming preachy satire. But perhaps it’s preachy satire that will resonate with the green people as much, if not more, than it does with mormons. It kinda combines the two. Not to be preachy, but because those things are interesting to me. Perhaps the porters are as baffled as the rest of the people, or have very little hope because their ideas on port conservation seem unrelated. 
This idea of active balance is actually better than the idea of a perpetual zero-sum equilibrium. 
Using more water creates larger gates. But how?
I need to read up on quantum entanglement and conic sections. Conic entanglement?
Why water? What is it about the properties of water that would make it conducive to entanglement? 
- dipole


Where does plastic come from?
- it’s a new form of matter, like plasma, as a byproduct of entanglement 

The spirit projects it’s light through the spiritual eye, it travels out to spiritual bodies, it “bounces” off of them once to travel directly to the Mother (or the pit).  She then radiates it back as light, through the many complicated “bounces” of light, and then comes back to the physical eye in the process we are all familiar with.
Spiritual bodies are not arranged in space, the way physical bodies are. They occupy their own plane, where everything is potentially linked in a single jump. There is no concept of distance. It is a non-material realm. 
The eye is the light of the body.  3 Nephi 13: 22-24
Our spirits can “look” upon whatever they choose. This is the purpose of the veil.  On the other side of the veil we are either in prison or paradise based on what we choose to look upon, what our treasure is, but we do not see with a physical eye. Light returns in the form of messengers from God. 
(What the infinite lacks is the finite: without limitation there is no being)
“No man can serve two masters”. When there is no distance or time, we are either looking one way or the other, there is no half way in the spirit, literally.
Spiritual sight is actually somewhat like the web request process. I say, I want to view a url-object (an abstract non-material single point), the DNS system connects me directly to the server, the server does all sorts of abstract processing and returns a cohesive page (a concrete set of objects conjured from a single query).
Life is a chance to learn to control our spiritual eye, and spiritual power so that we can enjoy the sphere that is possible to those who can maintain Charity, while having a complete soul. 

Athos is 

Athos floats above the planet, not all the way up in space, it is visible from the ground. It's ocean looks like a cloud, but very high in the sky. Above the clouds. There is a lock on the planet below. Ships enter the planet lock, and then are transported to Athos, where they are then transported to one of two other locks at one of the other ports. 

Like the moon, it looks like it just sits at the edge of the sky. How big would it have to be to be the size of the moon, from the surface's perspective? With it sitting just at the edge of space.

What is the lock like? I have romanticized this idea of a lock, but I can't picture it. I just like the idea of actual ships so much. More than spaceships. What if it's a lock, but vertical. 

There are two halves of a sphere, one at each port, and the ship is passing on a bridge between them. 

What if it is like a roller coaster loop. The ship goes 'uphill' until it's upside-down on the other side. 

What is it about the lock? it's the metal. It's the patience. It's the low-tech-ness. 

The ship is temporarily in both places at once. 

The ship enters a full lock. The water is lowered, it goes through a portal at one end of the lowered lock, and then comes into a portal at the lowered lock on the other side, and then the water rises, and then the gate is opened and the ship continues onto the water at the new port. 

In an actual lock, the ship is traveling at a higher level, and enters the lock. Both gates are shut, and then the water is slowly lowered to the lower height, and then the lower gate is opened and the ship passes through. 





It’s an epic story, not a single adventure. 

Can I explain the story in one sentence? 

It’s cross genre. Interstitial.

It’s not a romance, but the women in Truman’s life are very significant to who he is. 

Truman has a strength of will and determination, but is faced with big temptations and trials. 

Truman is described through his actions. 

Truman is tempted by a woman. The narrator says the women was seductive, but doesn’t say that truman was tempted. His temptation is implied. 

We go deeper into the inner struggles of Alice and Judith. You see their strength through overcoming the vulnerabilities we get insight to. 

Truman is smart, but not creative. He takes action. He takes the next step. Truman is introspective, and his thinking is complex. 

Judith is strong, and is about action, but she is also very imaginative. We see deep into her struggles, and her fantasies. 

Alice had a rough childhood. She gets tied to a chair as punishment, and then unties herself to go to the bathroom, and then ties herself back up to keep from getting in trouble. She sees death as a child. Her life being threatened is part of life. She can’t be out after dark. She is at a friend’s house, and stays too late. She knows if she leaves for home, her life will be threatend. But her friend, perhaps Truman. doesn’t really get the danger she is actually in, because he has been sheltered. So he sends her out and tells her just to walk quickly. She doesn’t speak up for herself. Dramatic irony. The reader knows there is real danger, but Truman doesn’t. We say “No Truman! don’t do that to her!” But he does. She is raped, and he doen’t hear about it. He moves along in his easy life. Alice goes where she wants, and does what she wants. She has a vivid imaginateion and escapes into her own world as a child. 

Alice is taken back and forth between Baba and Mercea throughout her childhood. She lives poor on Baba, she lives among violence on Mercea. 

Alice’s story is mingled with someone else’s, so it isn’t obvious she is meant to be with Truman. 

The reader should really be rooting for Alice to get with Truman. They love Truman, and want someone who deserves him. 

Alice is reckless, and her self-worth is low. Truman is stalward and humble—faithful. The reader must believe they go together. 

Alice is no longer that Borderline girl she was when I first invented to scare me away from falling for girls like that. 

The complication that Truman has is that he doen’t objectify, and when Alice first throws herself at him, he doens’t give in because she is offering herself to be objectified–it’s all she knows. Truman will only accept a real connection. It will be hard to write. It will be a suble differnce between when she wants to be objectified, and when she sees herself as a person. She grows by learning not to objectify herself. 

The contrast between Judith and Alice. Judith has self-dicipline over her intilect and body and over pain. Not as much over her emotions and imagination. Judith appears faithful in her strength. But eventually gives into her pride. 

Alice is humble because she has no status. When she grows up she knows she doesn’t have influence or power, so she can’t pretend to be a public figure. She learns to temper her imagination—controls what she will allow her mind to entertain. She bridles her passions. She develops a vigor for being who she wants to be. 

We see Alice escape emotionally and physically from danger when she is young. 

The rise of the phenoms, it builds like the tension of the Orcs taking the hobbits across the plains. It’s a time of attrition. It builds slowly. It goes on and on. The twins add to the preassure. We leave it and come back to it, and it’s just slowly building, you just want it to end. Then we leave it again. 

The native Merceans become aeronauts. 

The first war is between the Merceans and the Guild people. 
The second war is over water. 

Aaron’s ability to live simply peacfully and off the land, is threatend, and he must rely on the wisdom of a native. We see that with all of Ammon’s learning, part of what makes him weak is his isolation. He catologs nature, but dones’t live in harmony, per se. He leans on this native Mercean for help. He rides a wave of prosperity in nature, until things get rougher, then he must rely on those who actually live among the more intricate realities. Ammon gets a spark of inspiration from the wisdom he learns which helps him discover his theory of fluid dynamics, which helps him discover the gyre. Ammon has trouble understanding symbiocs and interdependant relationships. Life is simpler in isolation. 

There is plenty of water on Mercea, but it’s mostly salinated. The problem is that fresh water from Baba is getting dumped into the oceans. It’s a fresh water shortage, like you’d have on a pacific island sometimes. 

Tribes: industrious agriculturists, passive non-industrious, blood thirsty robbers, millitant robbers, wise nomadic hunters and herders

Everyone’s water is going away. It hurts everyone. 

Militant robbers are almost culturalized into a way of life, while blood thirsty robbers are much more intentional. 

The bloodthirsy ones wipe out the passivist nation and blames the invaders. Gets teh millitant robbers on their side. The murderous band lives off the passivist band, and are shortsighted in eliminating their supply. 

The passivists are like Ammon in a way. They are more wrapped in their intillect than grounded in reality. Though they appear very grounded.  

The robbers live under the pretense of living off of nature, but really live of off the work of other people. They rely on the prosperity of the people they rob from. When the water of those people is threatend, the robbers are threatened. 

The water rights of the agricultural natives is being taken from them. 

The wise nomatic hunters and herders know how to follow the water. Ammon must rely on them. They are less robbed upon. They must stand up to the robbers, and declare war on them. They are strong and brave as opposed to the agros. The agros are mostly not equipted to fight. It’s a very close fight between the bloods and the hunters. The hunters get the militant band on their side against the bloods, to finally overcome them. They are temporary allies. The hunters convince the militants that they have been decieved and manipulated. The bloods prey on the weappons of the militants, and recruit from their youth. 

Ammon finds temporary peace among the passives, on his way to his walden. 

The agros and the militants are the largest groups. 

The decisions about the science, should help the story, and not be sacred. The science should not drive the story, it should fill up the reality of the world. 

Not everything needs to be described. The reader’s imagination can fill in the gaps. 

There needs to be initial conditions of alignment to create a gate, but the two points between two gates doesn’t have to remain static after that. 

The porters aren’t a culture of their own because it’s convienient. It’s because they are isolated and have a complex heritage. 

Their dating is quite standardized and ritualized. Like the Amish. (214,000 Amish)

Marra resonates with a certain spot, they teleport can then use it to teleport back to that location. Usually between a fountian and a watch. 

Truman is left alone with Abigail when his other children are gone to Fountain House. 

Summer is 8 at the time of the separation, and 9 for the divorce.

The twins are born when Summer is 3.  

Children go to the Fountain House from ages 6 thur 11. They aren’t there for puberty. 

Summer rebels at 16, thinking her Father is at fault for the divorce. She follows in her mother’s footsteps training to become a sentinel. 



Ballons

You must take a ballon to get to the lockport island. 

Lockports are low enough for baloons to rise to them.

The seas around the lockports are only water at the surface, deeper down, it’s a thinner material. Or the sentinals are surrounded by a special field of energy which deflects water in a certain way. The special field leaves a very long red trace, like a continuous cape.

Phenoms can’t be killed by puncture, stabbing, etc. They must be cut. The thread must be cut. Therefor they fight with swords. 

Judith rides her squid side sadle and flips her self from faceing forward to back, depending on the squid’s direction. She stays against the squid like a bullet bike, to be hydrodynamic. She uses herself as a brake, by sitting up quickly. 

Phenoms creep, they glide, they bolt, they slither, they move. but other than individual features, they are created by the reader. They are menacing, they are fierce, they are forboding. They are long, or wide. But they don’t ever get described in detail, and there is a variety of types. 

The water gets deeper going away frome the shore, then gets shallow again at the edge, and water falls over the outer edge. The ring of water is needed to keep the link between gates, and the island in the air. From the side, the island looks like a big rock, with a flat top except a peak in the middle, with a tree on it, and a mist of water fall at the edges. 

There is an uderwater ledge, a reef. The sea floor is not a smooth taper, there is terrain. 

The water falls back to the planet surface, and is replentished constantly through the island’s fountain. The island’s fountain creates waterfalls coming out in tendrels all around the base of the tree. 

The same pressure that creates the fountain on the island, is the force that keeps it in the air. 

Mercea has better spices. Baba has the materials needed for status even on Mercea, so even people married to Mercea need to do commerce with Baba. 

Lockports float about 6000 feet in the air. 

There is a nebula you can see well from Athos. And the stars are brilliant.

I’m killing the idea that the ports always have a gravity source overhead, like Vectra or Pleach. It’s too limiting. 

Novel writing app, not as flexible as Scrivener, but does what it does well.

Versioned
Wiki
Automatic hashtag links
Twitter-like markup 
	@CharacterName
	#AnyTag, like a wiki link to all pages taged with this tag

If you name a character, then that name is forever automatically linked, simply by typing the name anywhere. When you start typing it, you get an auto-complete box like tagging someone on Facebook. After that, you can change the name in one place, and it changes everywhere. 


Objects

- Places
- Characters
- Anything — a page

It needs to have a distraction free mode, with no tagging. That’s tricky because one’s tags have to be figured out later. 

What if when you hover over a word (excluding words like: over, the,a, etc.), it automatically checks to see if there is a related link. Or, every word is clickable, and then you figure it out after the click. 
When changing the name of a page, the app askes you if you want to change it everywhere.
When you visit a page, you automatically see a list of a global search for that term.  
Every change is versioned automatically. You can replay a section, like in Wave. 
If I catalog every word, I’m still only going to be linking 400,000 words or so. Cake. 
Double click any word to go to its page. Populate it if you wish. 
The page is saved as markdown. 
Auto-replace for mdash etc.
Full keyboard navigation. 
Make a selection, and rewind that selection. Rewind a paragraph. Rewind a chapter. 

There is a reading mode, and a writing mode. Writing mode is always distraction free. Reading mode has tools. It’s somewhat like Vim that way, Command Mode vs. Insert Mode. You get to Reading mode by moving the mouse, or clicking escape. 

There isn’t a strict seperation between modes. When you start moving the mouse, or if you make a selection with the keyboard, the tools appear. When you start typing, the tools, version control, and folders fade. 

Each word is an object, each sentance is an object, each paragraph is an object. Each page is an object. It’s a graph. 

The water has to be resonated each time, resonated marra doesn’t, pocketwatches don’t

Truman stares at the working of his watch when he is I school. He memorized its form and functioning. He reassembles his father's watch, and does it from memory from then on. 

A vaccume is created by filling with water and sucking the water out with high pressure. 

His father sends him to school with the disassembled watch in a small case for him to carry it with him. He is long into building his watch for his children before he realizes the effort his father put into his watch. He almost credits himself, because of the effort and talent of putting it back together. He disassembled it when his father was grieving his mother. He reassembles the watch while in class, without instruction. He memorized the pieces, then solved it like a puzzle over the years of his schooling. When he completes the watch, before creating the vaccume and turning it on, he learns of the Old Watchmen. That's when he's converted and obsessed.  

Alice belittles porters when young and as a young adult. 

At first he just looks at the pieces, to keep from boredom. TEventually, he starts seeing patterns. 

Judith starts bathing in the water fountain for convenience, instead of using the watch. This draws her away even more from Truman, and eventually she doesn't want to even look at the watch, though she does not admit that to herself. 

Truman is an enabler, Judith demands certain behavior, in marriage and in parenting. 

Judith sits behind Truman, when trying to win him, and speaks in a soothing voice, and laughs pleasently. He feels something he wants to feel again. She hums when people are mingling. He is almost too shy to turn around. He is until she gets up, he turns to see she is, he doesn't find out who she is at that time. 

The Mother Fountain was worshiped before the first porters, but they found something they felt was a greater communion, and the first watchman made a new organization. He felt guided by her love. 

Ammon is Therauo
Marcus is more ADHD

Truman builds a giant music box that you can dance inside of. He shows it to her just before she leaves. She is almost dismissive. But it does affect her. 

This is how Judith rides her squid. She sits side saddle. The squid—her’s is named Mobius—can move either to Judith’s right, or to her left. So she turns her body either toward the squid’s nose, or toward the tips of her tenticles, depending on the direction she is directing the squid. 

“I leaned to my left, just in time, as the Phenom went over my head. I swung my sword at it’s trail, but it was moving so fast, it was past me before my blade reached it. I pressed close to Mobius, and gave her the command to dart toward her nose, hoping to improve the angle between me and the phenom, in case it were to bank back around. It was fast, Truman—very fast. Mobius was now darting at full speed, and I saw the phenom turn back onto a course obviously meant to intercept us. I don’t think I’ve ever seen a phenom that fast, but I signaled for Mobius to keep on her path. Just then, the phenom split in two. I don’t know if it split in two, or if it was just two phenoms traveling together, but they spread out, and both aimed toward where Mobius was headed, from two different angles. I kept Mobius on course, and even though normally I might veer at the last moment, and try to use their speed against them, I tried something else. I pulled my feet to the right, trailing behind me, so my back was against my saddle, and just before they got to me, I pulled my knees toward my chest, which caused a jolt of resistence breaking, and as the phenoms curved slightly, to correct their course, to be directly on target for a collision with us, I kicked both feet out, one kicking each of them, and as the force of that sent us back, and changed their tragectery so they were aimed upward, right in front of my face, instead of at my head, I sliced right through both of them with one stroke. It was brilliant, Truman. I wish you couldn’t seen it. I’ve never used that manuver at that speed before. It was breathtaking—what a rush. And the trails were magnificent: two black streaks, and one red streak, forming a pyramid, where at the peak, the black lines end, and the red explodes out the top like lava from a volcano.”
Quite contary to making me excited, this story made me quite anxious. I knew full well that Judith was putting her life on the line every day, and I knew she was an excellent fighter, but the idea that the phenoms were beginning to challenge her abilities, made we worry. But I kept the worry to myself, though it continued to haunt me each day after that. 

I had seen these trails before. They can be truly magnificent. The only way I’ve ever seen them is from inside my mechanical diving shell, which makes me look like a big metal gorrila underwater, with a glowing face. 

I imagine that Truman would only include details that are important to some point that he’s making. 

There must be some reason for Truman to be telling the story. It’s an exploration or a gift, or a time capsule.

I will fret over every detail, whether or not I write it from Truman’s POV or not. If I write it first person, then the quirks can be his quirks. 

This, nor anything like it, should ever stop me from writing. It’s in the editing, and the 5th rewriting. Just go.

I took the lever in my hand, like I had many times before. This was a task that usually requiered no thought at all, and yet, at this moment it occupyied all my though. All my thoughts were on the action of pulling the lever. I had done this action thousands of times, and yet, this time, I could not let the attention of my mind move to any other subject. My hands took a hold on the leather handle, and I put thought even into the tightness of my grip. I thought about the color of the leather on the handle of the lever. I though about the muscles in my arms and back, as they engaged to do the task necessary, to pull the lever. 

***

I spend most of my time building machines. The working of machines has been a fascination of mine since I was a boy. But there are so many people who build machines for reasons which I can not understanad. 

My brain is tired. I am not writing well. 

I notice that my writing voice is very influenced by what I’m reading, and what music and podcasts I’m listening to. 

Omythreal is casual, yet gramatically correct. He’s a slightly more easy going version of me. He is more incredulous than me—less suseptible to suggestion.
Henry sounds like Ray Kurzwile. 
Truman sounds like Pip. Proper, yet warm. Henry David Thoeruo. Robert Persig. Crisp, yet mellow. Exact, but indirect. 
Abigail like Alice. 
The note writter in Uzu…


Truman reads to his dauther Abigail every night, one chapter from The Book of Abigail Rose.

Each chapter influences what Truman thinks about the next day. 

The Triad is Truman, Abigail Rose, and Henry. Henry is the space they occupy, Abigail is the object, and Truman is the observer. 

From Truman’s perspective, Henry is the space they occupy (the Great Mother in his mind). Abigail is the object he observes. Truman want’s to be wrapped in the Great Mother as he watches Abigail in her confinement. 

From Henry’s perspective, Abigail is observing the reader—the reader is the object. And Truman’s mind is the space they both occupy. He wants us to observe Abigail—to return her gaze, to see her through Truman’s eyes.  

From Abigails perspective, the reader is the space and Henry is the object. (?) Or rather, for her there is no discrete object. She occupies the objects. She sees herself in everything. She loves instantly because she lacks the distinction between herself and object. 

Perhaps this is an odd arrangment. Square pegs. Or maybe it’s the application of Henry’s world view to envision his method and motive in storytelling. 

Abigail and Truman don’t share this world view consiously, so they do not express things within the same world view. 

Abigail tends not to look directly at the space she occupies, but rather experiences the world through enjoining herself with what she observes. They are her protective partners, creating a world in which to be, to avoid looking outward. Ideas are scary, direct experience is not. 

Truman doesn’t believe in time, so to speak. He experiences things in a way that makes him believe that direct experience is false, and that ideas and objects are equally substanative. The Great Mother is comforting, and more importantly REAL to him because she is a cohesive idea, which claims … Truman is an experientialist. How to reconcile the two? He adopts orthodox exerientialism because it is the idea which most intellectually descriptive of what would constitue a reality. But separately, he believes in the Great Mother because she is his experience. He is not philosophical, so he does not overtly admit that his other experiences feel false, but it’s more of an underlying feeling that pervades his perception. The Great Mother is comforting and real to him because experiencing her is the only time experience feels substanative. In her, he can surrender the oppression of his prevading subconscious world view, and know what it is to be. It is his experience of I AM. The intellectual dissonance in his mind comes from being an experientialist, and yet not experiencing what is apparently all around him being substance. When Henry looks at Truman, he sees a man that truly worships him, and inexplicably intuits the nature of his reality. Because Truman is emergant from a substance which is essentially from Henry’s imagination. 

I must not forget that Abigail Rose is presented to Truman by Henry. Abigail is Henry reaching for Truman from the inside, rather than from above. It was transitted by Henry, to be recieved by it’s author. The author was intune in the way that Truman is, but nearly insane from being unable to reconsile his reality. 

Truman writes because the written word is one thing that, to him, can be real. He transmits his book because it is what’s real to him—more real than the experiences which are written within it. 

His book is one month of daily contemplations leading up to his decision to block the idol from passing through his gate. And then daily contemplations during his trial, and prision sentance. He doesn’t read to his daughter Abigail during his time in prison. The reader is meant to miss Abigail Rose, to accentuate that there is a hole in Truman’s life after the death of his daughter. He begins reading The Book of Abigail Rose to Alice, after he is released, and works as a blacksmith. And Alice fills the hole, in a sense. His daughter had no personality. And in a sense her, therefor, her personality is ever present. And her memory is imortalized in the pages of Abigail Rose. He has trouble enjoying the easy life he finds with Alice, and feels guilt for feeling the relief of not having to care for Abigail. His full acceptance of his happiness comes when his feelings for the Great Mother, and for both Abigails, is repeated back to him by Alice. When she unknowingly gives him the “I see it too.” that he didn’t even know he was hoping for. He is actualized in one phrase from her. And so the book ends. Henry adds no more, after her words. Truman says nothing, only does something that clearly signifies to the reader, and to Alice, that he is fully ready to accept his own happiness, writing something like, “I took her hand, and put it to my cheek, looked into her eyes, and [gave the physical sign, meaning “I see it too.”].” She had been trying to make the sign to him, by putting her hand on his cheek, but he had not been recipricating. It was a ritual with which he had always had a problem, because of the way he witnessed the world. In that way, this gesture can symbolize the magnatude of the feeling of conectedness and understanding that he feels with her. 

I know you, you know me, and we both see something. 



If I want the novel to be a commercial success, then it would be wise to build a community. But sharing makes me feel vulnerable. I don’t know if I’m thick skinned enough. I need some way that I can filter out the voices who don’t “see” what I see. Not that I don’t want criticism, I just have no use for criticism toward a different outcome than I intend. 

I can share some things, and not other things.

Share and collaborate 
- Wiki 
- Blog
- Writing ideas
- World-building wiki platform

Keep to myself
- Actual text of the book

This division makes sense, especially if I’m upfront about it. It would mean not just posting and hoping for visitors, but actually getting involved in the community. I need community for socializing, for self-improvement. And this would be the way that I grow interest in me, and in the book. I trust my brain to be worthy of attention, as long as I stay well, and avoid intoxication. Maybe some writers can handle intoxication as part of their life, but for me, it sets me back in a big way. I can trust my brain to be interesting, but can I trust my day to day writing to inspire confidence in my ability to write a novel. Writing day to day, each day—getting practice, in other words—is the way that I’ll improve my writing. Writing stuff people will read, will bring me out of a cave and make me fight for survival. This is like yoga or CrossFit: somehow I know it’s a better way, but I never have the fortitude to do it. I should do yoga regularly rather than doing CrossFit. I don’t need to be an athlete, but yoga would help be an exceptional person, and have the same type of social accountability, and it would keep me healthy in the ways that are most important to me.

I need a new name besides Athos Island. That is not the right name for this book. I don’t want to get stuck on it, and perhaps I don’t need a name for the book, just a name for the universe. Something to name the wiki and blog. 

The blog can be named after me, because it will be independant of this one book, and may include others.

I would like to maintain a psudonym through all this. I want the intelectual freedom inherant in anonymity. I don’t want my family or my ward to be in that part of my life. This work has too much potential to be misunderstood. I don’t mind them reading the finished product, maybe, but I don’t want them involved in the process. 

I sure write about writing a lot more than I actually write fiction. I write more about my story, than I write my story. But the level of complexity and detail is stimulating to me. Call me a planner/outliner, I guess. 

I want to renew my commitment to yoga and to writing, and to unplug from the TV—while maintaining my commitment to my profession. 
Yoga and meditation can fill the space that craves intoxication. My aversion to yoga is the feeling of being a beginner, and a fat male. And being exposed, physically. And the constant bumping up against my physical limitations, and feeling like my nerve damage looks ugly. That’s just something I need to initially get past. If it becomes habit and just a part of the way I live, then those things will become a non-issue. 
What will Enku think of this? I actually think she’d rather me watch TV, for predictability and managability’s sake. And the fact that that is the common thing we do together. I need to take care of my most important relationship in the process. Yoga can be in the morning when she’s leaving for work, which I think would be a relief to her. But she feels distant from me when I write, and somewhat fairly so, because I am quite detached when I write. One good hour a day, outside of our time in bed, should be enough, especialy if it’s habitualized. One hour of TV a day to relax, and to stay connected with other people, in that strange way that TV has helped me do, to keep from becoming a weirdo, completely in my own world. And especially to stay connected to my wife.
I worry about getting burned out. I am often tired after work. Is it habitualization that I need? Is it meditation? Is it physical activity that will balance it out. Wake, yoga, work, meditation, writing and community, TV, bed. Yes, balancing writing with community in the same time slot will be energising .

Like Cloud Atlas and The Gods Themselves, we only slowly begin to understand the connection between Omythreal, Henry, Abigail, and Truman, as the Novel progresses. 



Manta rays think first in terms of photosynthesis because they get ambient energy. And in terms of division because of resonance duplication. 

There are three children: two girls and a boy.  Summer, Calvin, and Abigail. They spend their time learning and in active play.  Truman is an exceptional father.  Abigail, the youngest, is disabled, which is a weight on the family and tries Judith’s patience.  Truman’s love for Abigail has grown through his service to her, but even the reader has a hard time finding admirable traits.  Abigail is not secretly bright or amazing, her mental and physical debilitation is severe. Calvin is the middle child, similar in personality to Taio, and the oldest girl, Summer, is similar to Asia. I want to exchange enough of the children’s traits that people won’t draw direct parallels with my children.  But I do want my girls to learn from the story, without being stereotyped.  The children will have faults and I don’t want my girls to identify with specific faults. 

Name: Truman (not included in text?)

Role in story:
Hair:
Eyes:
Skin:
Body type:
Dress:
Habits/Mannerisms: 
Weaknesses:
Strengths:
Family:
Social dynamic:
Occupation:
Social status:
Internal conflicts:
External conflicts:

Notes:

Truman is an aspy. He is like Ian in this way. He plods along in his world. Doing what he must do. He has great strength, mentally, physically, and emotionally. But he doesn’t really get people. All the world is spinning around him, and it’s easier for him to just keep up his routine than to try and figure out what it’s all about. He’s not just like Ian. Only in some of the ways Ian is an aspy. 
He never concerned himself with social studies or philosophy. His time is mostly spent working, but his hobby is making things. He makes a ship for Marcus. He makes intricate toys for his children. He has a hard time making things for Judith, so he makes her weapons for her work, and also decides to make her a huge music box, because she loves dancing, though he doesn’t, and doesn’t understand why she does. 

He takes solice in traditional porter practices and is strict in observance. 

Mana is turned into a very solid material, like titanium, but very rare. Porters usually don’t do anything with it themselves, and usually trade it. Truman lives frugally in order to collect it to build the things he loves to build. He wants them to last forever. Usually mana is alloyed with metal, in order to make machinery. 

Truman is married to Judith and is Aaron's best friend. 




I keep wondering about the story of Truman, if it’s compelling enough. I’m riveted by stories with strong leads. Heroic tales. People who seem great, who seem to have the ability to see more clearly than those around them, to make the right choice by the seat of their pants.
Lawrence of Arabia was like that, but then Part 2 was a real twist.  I loved the twist. The man broke. He had made things better, but not perfect, and there were consequences. 
I like stories of Heroism, but also stories of vulnrebilitiy. 
Is Truman a heroic character? Judith is the warrior. It seems that in personalitiy that she would be the one more likely to make decisive powerful moves.
I suppose stories and characters evolve, the best ones do. I’m thinking of Rand in the Wheel of Time. He is clumsy at first and he isn’t as much heroic as he is lucky, but he still grows.
Also, I think of characters in Ayn Rand’s books who seem powerful at first and become pathetic. 
Truman is heroic in the truest sense: he is a good father, and does what is right, not what is easy. But he is still vulnerable and makes mistakes.
Judith could be like Lawrence standing beside the well with no gun, his friend having just been shot, and when the man with the rifle asks his name, he says he only gives his name to friends. Bold. So bold as to be respected in the act itself and protected by the boldness itself. She can be like a dry pine-tree on a fire, very bold, and then spent. Truman is thick log, he catches fire more slowly, but when he proves his heroism, there is an absolute certainty about it. His constancy builds into a great force, and then the big decisions he must make — which must of necessity not be simple black or white issues — will be just as bold, more bold, than Judith’s. I don’t want  to completely villify Judith, but Truman will be a true hero. Even though he is left with no wife, a disabled child, and rebelious child. It does not end in dispair, it proves his greatness. 
Calvin becomes rebellious as a teen. The fire in his personality is fueled by the divorce, and even though he has his healing powers, he feels like he wants to take care of himself, instead of others. His rebellion doesn’t fully develop, but there is a tension there of uncertainty. Truman must make choices about Calvin that would be hard for any parent to make, no matter how wise, no matter how loving. 
Truman must be involved with something greater than the family as well. Like a magicians trick, there needs to be a compelling distractor. The realization that he is a wonderful father has to build in the background, his parenting will seem to be not as central and important as it truly is. 
He makes a stand in the war. The rising problem, the war, of the dark phenomena is being fought the wrong way by the powers that be. Truman has to put his faith as a porter on the line, and make a very difficult and unpopular decision, in order to change the course of the war. 
He decides not to let a major military vessle through his port. He knows that it will be a tipping point, and he has to make the decision based on porter knowledge of phenomena rather than the standard view of them. 


Truman is like Budge: steady though imperfect, funny, passionate under the surface, socially abrasive and unpolished, and very giving, loving, and service oriented.  Bulky and brood-ish.  Average looking and a little asymmetrical. He has a condition that will shorten his life even more than a normal porter, Judith uses this in her rationalization: she expects to have a second husband, and justifies some of her dreaming as planning ahead, and she thinks about leaving sooner rather than later so Truman will have time to find another companion, one that likes kids more than she does. 

Truman Elliot? Elliot is thought to be from “Elijah” or “Adthelgeat”, meaning “noble gate”.

The question arrises about names. If I use names historically tied to english, then I am breaking the reality of the world. If I create my own names, then I have my work cut out for me in coming up with names that are memorable, as well as historical within their own world. It’s a trade off. I hate remembering weird names. Paul in Dune is a normal name, but Atraides is probably contrived. Turns out, it’s actually from mythology. 
What a great man is he: true like an arrow.


Truman — A conductor, married to Judith, serious and devout. 

Abigail is Calvin’s trwin, mostly incapacitated from a disease that keeps her from developing mentally or physically in most ways. She is very difficult to take care of. Keeping her alive is a lot of effort.

Abigail is in a mechanical wheelchair. She also has a small nana-monkey, who can do limited things. The nana-monkey dies. 

She is a lot of work to take care of. 

She wonders what's going on with her parents. She is about just barely 12. She is old enough to know something is going on, but not old enough to figure it out. I might worry that 12 is too old to be so naive, but I think the fact that she is porter is explanation enough. 

At first she sneaks out to the boat-house to cook for her mother, and she eventually moves out there with her mother. 

Summer sees her own brightness, and aptitude and is a little to young to be humble about it. She takes care of the people around her with abandon. She loves people. Humans. 

Calvin is a healer. A boy. He is scared of the responsibility of being a healer. He is challenged by having powers beyond his youth.

Sarah is much like Doug.  She gets her opinions from what she reads, and she is very proud of her knowledge.  You are never sure if she is a true friend to Judith or whether she is just using her.  Both actually. She uses her, enjoys her, and talks down about Judith behind Judith’s back. She is librarian, of sorts, aboard the White Star. She is pretty, though not beautiful, and shameless in seduction.
The reader sees Judith talk to Sarah who is aboard the ship.  They see her resent her work. 

The main problem with Admiral Wesson of the White Star, is that he is actually a very impressive person — he is probably a stronger man than Truman in many ways.  He actually has strength of character.  He is not a villainous jerk. He is somewhat like Terra.  He is kind, but somewhat snobbish. He has expensive taste, and the money to indulge his desires, yet this has not made him gluttonous or exceptionally covetous. He will even school Sarah on occasion, exceeding her knowledge in some areas, and rivaling her knowledge in general.  He is well trained in MMA and Parkour.  At first the reader is impressed, then they want to find fault in him but have a hard time, but ultimately see some of the weakness in pride.

Admiral Wesson 
Is a great man. He is libertarian, not tea party, old-school, like John Galt. No, not John Galt. Like a Stake President. He does right by his fellow man. He is generous to those around him and honest in his dealings. He is squeaky clean. He can be the voice o that part of me that identifies with conservative thinking. It's 

Joyce — Works on the White Star as a hostess. 

Peter is a man who gives in to his pride. He thinks he is much more important than he actually is, and tends to want people around him that help him maintain the image of he has of himself. 


Peter is a combat and dance instructor aboard the White Star. He is good looking and talented but only marginally charming. 
Peter thinks he is secretly great. He thinks every story is about him somehow. In almost every situation, he is looking for how it might be proof of his greatness. He believes he may be a reincarnation of alexander the great, a child of Zeus. 
When he looks in the mirror, he thinks it’s only telling the truth every now and then (like in the song Mirror Error). 
Peter goes into debt to build his status machines. 

Lucy is a student of marine biology.  She loves animals and has a very simplistic world view.  She has red hair, and craves her father’s approval.  In matters outside of her field, she follows her father’s opinions with admiration. Her knowledge of biology initially leads the reader to believe she has a rich world-view, but that world-view doesn’t translate into other areas of her life, doesn’t transcend her fascination. She is religious in a bad way. She is a bit of a spinster; it’s not that she is getting old, it’s just that she has had very few relationships. Biology is her companion. 
She doesn’t see the way she is caged by her father because she thinks her career potential proves that she is independent. But she lives with him. 

Alice’s father, Robert, thinks he’s right about everything. Wise in a way, but overly dualistic and ruled by dogma and orthodoxy. There is a time when he is right, when everyone doubts him because they dismiss him in general due to his style.  They don’t like his dualistic thought and are ruled by their bigotry too. Sometimes old thinking is exactly what’s needed. 
He ignores or even opposes the ideas of resource preservation. He’s not thrilled about Lucy’s fluffy career, but he supports it because he believes it’s actually a man she needs. 

Robert, Lucy’s grandfather. He is seasoned, he understands that life is more complicated than it seems.  
He lives with his son, and often drives Lucy around so she isn’t traveling alone. 
He visits the gate with Lucy, and subtly helps Calvin develop his gift in little ways.
He’s a small character, like a Tom Bombadil

Launderer/drummer

Forms a friendship with Summer

If Truman is the Earth, then Marcus is the moon. Truman is unmovable, but Marcus is more volatile, yet always orbiting Truman. 

Arron is Judith’s brother. 

Arron is a porter by birth, who travels. He is not a superstitious porter. He is Judith's brother. 

He sails a small fast boat. He is an excellent sailor. 

He has avoided the responsibilities of having a family. 

He is a Guild descendant, like Judith.

He is ungrounded. 

Marcus is a solo cargo sailor — like a trucker in function, a gypsy in culture.  He lives adventurously and is a skilled survivalist.  Sailing is an art to him, and he enjoys the mechanics of it. He is a porter in belief only.  He is attracted to Alice, but she is only playful with him.  He has seen a lot in his life.  He is Judith’s brother, and a close friend with Truman, a true friend in the pure and lasting sense, a spiritual brother. 
How does Marcus live? He is a character that can live a life that I can’t live. 
Marcus keeps a fruit tree on his ship. He trades for his other food. He has 2 years worth of other food on board. 
The ship’s cabin has a fireplace, a bookshelf, a desk, a bunk, 3 chairs (two for visitors when he’s at port, like Walden). 
He is a runner. His ship holds a small amount of cargo or messages, for fast delivery. 
His sail is a patchwork, but in excellent condition. 
He is a storyteller. He plays the accordion and the harmonica. 
He is a tease. (such as with the dock master)
He is a conservationist. He is worried about the water crisis.
He used to do long-haul cargo for an industrial-complex company,  before he became a runner, which he is not proud of.

Differences between Marcus and Ammon.
- Ammon is philosophically grounded. Marcus doesn’t really question existence, and sloppily falls back to being a porter when pressed. 
- Ammon is predictable. Marcus, more of a loose cannon. 
- Ammon is entirely self-sufficient, while Marcus depends on others, but can survive a long time on his own. 
- Marcus genuinely loves people, even though he’s away for long periods of time. Ammon is above them. (Both mostly stick to themselves most of the time).
- Marcus lives. Ammon hides. 
- Marcus is ADHD. Ammon is OCD. 





Ammon is a classmate of Truman’s at the Fountain House. 

Ammon is Walden Man. He is a transendentalist. He is philisophical, and knowledgeable. A self-proclaimed Watchman, and Watchmen scholar. He avoids commitments and entanglements. He is all talk when it comes down to it. Alice falls for him, thinking he is stable like Truman, but is let down by lack of followthrough. He lives in the woods on Baba. His hard work is all self-serving, to be self-suffcient. He has no family. No real love. 

Judith is the son of a pilot native to Mercea, who became a porter, and lived on a Quedsiva caye. Her father had fire in his blood, and was rebellious in leaving Mercea. He became a dedicated man when he moved to Quedsiva, and put away his rebellion once it was serving him no purpose, and turned that fire into a passion for being a porter. Judith grew up feeling like her father was strict and overbearing. The distance from Mercea added romance to the “native blood” in her, and was instrumental to the obsession which led her away from Truman. 

Judith is originally attracted to Truman because he is so exceptional, strong, and hansom. He received a lot of unwelcome attention in the porter community for the watch he made so quickly. He was seen as a spiritual prodigy. She saw him as a humble celebrity. She herself was a celebrated martial artist, and an accomplished sentinel. 

Truman was stirred by Judith’s skill and beauty. His brain made him more attracted to her movements than her form. 

Judith — A sentry, teased for being a “porter for life”, has times when she resents her work, though she is adept.  Wears outsider adornments on her feet.  She is a “daughter of Zion”.  Spends too much time thinking about what she doesn’t have.  Sentries fight or keep the phenomena which appear as ships enter the door. 

Judith should be loved by the reader before she goes bad. 

Judith's fantasy is inside a grand hall. On first entering it sparks her imagination. She imagines the admiral up on the mezzanine. Later, she creates signs that he has been there. 

Alice begins very young and reckless. She is emotionally unstable. She is from Baba, but moved to Mercea as soon as she could. Truman meets her on her way to Mercea. He isn’t affected by her much, but Marcus is. Marcus chases her around, a bit, here and there, but not very seriously. Alice teases Truman when she first meets him, because she is attracted to his strength. She is inwardly insecure about her instability, and she sees Truman as a rock to anchor herself to. She makes passes at him, but in a way that keeps her safe from revealing the fact that she feels a deep need for someone like him. 

Later, Judith gives her timepiece to Alice on a whim. Alice bathes in the fountain out of sheer curiosity. She is transformed by it. She is stabilized by it. She doesn’t know that Truman made the timepiece, but she equates the feeling of security she gets from bathing in fountain with the feeling she had when meeting Truman. She begins working with disabled children. But the child in her still keeps her on Mercea. 

Eventually she finds herself with Truman once again, when she is called upon to help his disabled son. This time there is tension on both sides, but Alice is not throwing herself at him, because of the depth of her respect. I’m not sure I should resolve the tension between them, because some readers will be extremely unsatisfied if a man like Truman ends up with a girl like Alice. And perhaps it’s better to let the readers resolve this tension in the way that is most satisfying to them. I want to be both Truman and Alice, in my life. I am more like Alice, but I want to become Truman, and then have an Alice come to me. Kinda weird that way. It’s almost like a siren song to bring her to me. But this novel is not about meeting women, though everything is somehow about meeting women. Hahaha. 

I want to hide the fact that Alice is going to return to take care of Truman’s son. I want to make it seem like I am making a parallel between how the two handle the struggles of working with the disabled. Maybe. I don’t want the reader to realize that Truman and Alice are somehow going to meet in the middle. I need a steady hansom woman who will appear to be Truman’s counterpart. 

Truman sees all women as the same, mostly. He doesn’t really even look for a replacement for Judith. Alice is the first woman after Judith to stir him. She is dynamic in a way that soothes him. She adores him in a way that feels absolute. He feels she is tethered to him. Everything else comes and goes. He is the most solid thing she has ever found. He sees her vulnerability, and good heart, and wants to be her shelter and anchor. He sees that he can be good for someone, a blessing to someone, and it makes him feel loved. He is confident in her love not because she is entirely stable, but because he is, and there is nothing greater to her. She has hungered for it her entire life. She has found it in him. 

When Alice comes to visit, there is an abundance of Mara. 

Alice, rides in cargo ships, or drives dignitaries. She is a cabbie. Marcus sees her when she is too young, and then watches her age faster, and become his own age. Marcus realizes, that she doesn't grow up, even though she is aging. It was not because she's a traveler that she doesn't grow. It's because she never pushes herself beyond doing what comes naturally. 

Alice is a ferry pilot, just like Janine was a chauffeur: it pays the bills and she can people watch at the same time. She is unreliable and emotionally unstable. She parties hard but also knits because it soothes her guilt somehow, it gives her a false sense of being grounded and patient, but resents the hobby a little bit too. She is also somewhat like Roya in the way she uses men. She convinces herself of her own lies. She is platinum blond with chin-length hair, and has a twiggy build. 
Alice believes in a male one-god. It's a feel good god that requires no commitment, and is like the Gaia followers I know. It is for self appeasement. She starts believing in it to feel better about herself. 


Alice living near an airship port planetside near the sea, saying someday she will fly away, and see the lockports. She is not born a porter. Truman meets her as a girl, when his is surfaceside to go to the Fountain House. 

Lilian is beautiful in an perfectly average and symmetrical sort of way. Lilian is frugal, polite, diplomatic, kind, steady, knowledgeable. She and Truman orbit each other throughout. It seems they are perfect for each other. She puts a trim of flowers on Truman’s toughness. She seems to be the woman’s touch he is lacking. But there is no real friendship or chemistry, just perceived rightness for each other. There are hints that she is interested in Marcus, once Truman is no longer interested.  He toys with it too, but clearly doesn’t go for it.

Two characters are whales. They are small whales who communicate in a spacial language, and travel through the ports occasionally, yet keep their memories. 

The strongest Phenoms are formed throughout the entire passage through the lockports. 

Until, until. 

Judith spent too much time below the surface. 

Cora was not for sale at any price. 







Aria Lily is a prophetess from a distant past. Dead long before Truman was born. 

Marcus is Judith's brother, and a wanderer. He is a porter, mostly by birth rather than personal conviction. 

Judith is a hunter. She is a focused weapon. She has an intricate stage where is playing out a fantasy that sends her chasing the Admiral of the White Star. She leaves her husband, Truman. 

Truman runs the mechanical lock, used as a portal between two distant points in the star system.

Activity through the ports is like airport traffic. Private jets. Shipping jets. Commercial first class flights. Cheap flights. A global phenomena. 

Two planets in the same system have people living on them. One is a planet like Mars or earth. And the other is actually a moon around a gas giant. The ports run between ports on these two planets. 



The families are meant to divide up the communal roles, but Truman has taken on more than is typical for a single person. He is not only the gate operator, but he is also the blacksmith and the mechanic. This has led to the other families to focus more on entertaining. They are acrobats and performers. Usually entertainment is provided by the travelers themselves.

These are the traditional lockport roles:
- Metalworker  
- Mechanic
- Pipeworker
- Sentinel
- Ambassador
- Launderer 
- Bath-host
- Cook 
- Lock operator
- Janitor
- Schoolmaster
- Gardener
- Messenger
- Weight mover

On Athos the roles develop into:
- Truman: Lock operator, metalworker, mechanic, gardener, pipeworker
- Judith: Sentinel
- Peter: Ambassador
- Marr: Launderer/drummer
- Sarah: Bath-host
- Barma: Cook, schoolmaster
- Summer: Messenger
- Lilian: Janitor/fire-dancer
Additionally:
- Pip (Jeremy): Grand showman, acrobat 
- Hue: Illusionist, acrobat 
- Ariette: Chef, fire-dancer
- Evelyn: Acrobat 

Most of the people live in the stone building 
The performers start moving out, into tents


Aria is 
Strength : Emotionally strong (in contrast to Calvin)
Weakness: Mercy
Physicist Mathematician 
Mother Fountain

Mother, Dr. Aria Lily Porter, Center Fountain, Love
Mother Aria, Mother Fountain, Dr. Porter
Color of light: Red
Pigment: yellow (men’s happiness) 
Shape: Circle
Child: Calvin (strength is love, weakness is emotion)
time, motion, space
Hearts are red, a symbol of love
Strong nuclear force, photons

Brother, Dr. Jacob Allen Belman, Right Fountain
Nickname: Jacob doesn’t go by Jake, ever. ;)
Cardinal attribute: Learning/Becoming/Growth (Faith)
Color of light: green
Pigment: blue (knowledge of men)
Shape: Square
Child: Summer (strength is learning, weakness is learning)
Carbon is four-sided
Life is based on carbon 
Men use carbon in nano-tech
A square is logical,
Green > Growth
Gravity, euclidian


Strength is learning
Weakness is learning
Nano-tech scientist Chemist 
Right Fountain

Weakness is trust
Strength is arm of flesh
Physiologist Psychologist 
Left Fountain

Lockports are stationary satellites. They consist of an island, and an ocean. 

Locks are the entire transport structure, found on the island of a lockport.

The pound is the part of the lock where the water is raised and lowered. 

The port is the area around the pound, used by travelers, and does not include the rest of the island.

The gate is the actual link between worlds. 

You don’t remember anything of your journey, when you arrive at the receiving lockport, after your journey. 

Lockports were originally, and are primarily, used for intra-planetary travel, and then later used for inter-planetary travel. 

Truman and Judith are top of their class, and were therefore chosen for one of the primary inter-planetary gates.

There is only one set of lockports between the two worlds. 

The islands support a small community—like a frontier town. I like the solitary image of a single tree on a solitary island. It’s iconic. The community is comprised of certain roles, and some have families.  (see: Characters: Roles) Lockports islands are small, and can only support a small number of people. They must be self-sufficient to a large degree, and cannot accept very much support from the planets, as the weight of a port is finely balanced. If something is brought to a lockport, something of equal weight must be taken away. Lockport dweller require a mineral that is only found on lockports. They can eat each other’s food, but porters cannot be sustained on planetary food. The minerals found in porter food are considered an absolute luxury, because the mineral is so rare and necessary for lockport travel. Many planetary people consider this primitive living. The chef must cook food brought from the planet, to feed travelers. Weight must be regularly taken from a lockport to keep it in balance due to marra and phenom energy. Taking something from a planet makes this even more arduous. 

Most lockport islands have a stone castle-like building where the main port is. A very old, and very large tree has been allowed to flourish on Athos. And the inter-planetary lockports are made of granite and marble. 

Only planet side lockports have entrances. Lockports in orbit are simply raised, and then lowered again. This means that Truman’s job doesn’t include opening a gate, except the gate to let out water. 

The boats are raised above sea-level, using water pressure coming through the gate, they are lowered by gravity, causing water pressure on the receiving gate. Water is transferred in either direction, based on the direction of travel. There is starting to be a water shortage on Baba, due to excessive on-way travel. This is also how water was first sent to Mercea. 

Lockports require fresh water. Mercea is mostly fresh water.

They don't just sync the gates once. They have to go through a manual process of resonating water, and making the tie each time. Both sides reach into the water until they connect. 


Athos a Conical Door — Are run by a sentry and a conductor

  The doors use sympathetic resonance in crystals and the space-time distortions caused by the gravity of a nearby gas giant to create the conduits.

this ships don't flicker, they speed up and blur, when they go through the ports

The people of the Vectran system know only of the Vectran system, but most people believe dogmatically that Phenoms and marra are intergalactic travelers/manifestations. Though the actual evidence to support this is more the absence of opposing evidence. 

What myths and stories would these celestial bodies conjure?

Vectra is a star at the center of the Vectran System. It is smaller and cooler than the sun. It has 7 planets. 

Pleach is a gas giant, orbiting Vectra. It has 5 moons, 3 of which have lockports. 

Pleach is always visible above Athos Island. The cycles of light and dark on Athos are due to the phases of pleach. 

Pleach causes there to be extreme, but very slow, tides on it’s moons. 

It’s moons are
- Mercea
- 

Mercea orbits Pleach and is always below Athos Island. From the vantage point of Athos, it is spinning below their feet. 

Mercea has an erratic orbit, and is also warmed by it’s molten core, which makes the entire ecosphere rather constant in temperature. It’s gravity is 0.8 that of Earth’s. The people of Mercea are generally taller, and are climbers. They generally live in high places, such as tall trees and mountains, to avoid the extreme tides. Though some favor the water itself. 

Mercea was discovered long ago, by the people of Baba. 

The people of Mercea travel less to Baba, than the people of Baba travel to Mercea. Mercea is more of a paradise. When the people of Mercea do travel to Baba, they often keep to the water, at least during the few months it takes to adjust to the gravity and temperature fluctuations. 

Athos is the name of the entire lockport satellite. It is consisted of Athos Island and the Sea of Athos. 

Truman has always lived on Athos. 

Athos Island is where Truman and Judith live. 

The gravity of Athos Island, and lockports in general, are a happy medium between that of Mercea and Baba. 




Baba is a enhabited earth-like planet, with an iron core and an axis which creates very extreme seasons. It has 2 moons and one lockport. It’s gravity is slightly 1.4 that of earth’s.  

It’s moons are
- Lara — the larger moon, and has the lockport of Menth
- Platan — the smaller moon, looks like a large star from the surface of Baba.

The people of Baba are generally stouter and have higher concentrations of iron in their blood. 

Baba is closer to Vectra than the the earth is to the Sun. But with Vectra being cooler, the temperatures are similar. 

Platan is a moon of Baba, smaller and fainter than Lara.

Quedsiva is the lockport which orbits Baba in sync with Lara.

Quedsiva is where Judith grew up. She is stronger than most Merceans because of this, and is more familiar with Babans. She traveled to Athos and the other Baba lockports when she was 14, as a rite of passage. 

Baba is always at the apex of the sky on Quedsiva, with Lara at it’s feet. 

Vectra is more prominent in Baba’s sky than it is in that of Mercea. 

Lara is the larger moon of Baba. 

There are only two planets involved. There are not planets all over the place. This is tricky. How many porters are there in total? Does each planet actually have many ports? Yes, it only makes sense. It's like crossing the atlantic, at first there were only a couple crossers, but the less time it took, the more often they did it.

How many LDS people were there in the 20s? I can use other times and other groups to get a feel for the dynamics of being an ouside culture. Hmm. Maybe not research that I need to spend my time on. 


Mara


There is no universal currency. Power and status is much more dynamic, and varies by planet and culture. 

I like the idea of avoiding villains, except for the phenomena themselves. There are conspiracy theories, but no actual conspiracy. It is the negative reprecutions of each individual's actions that create the ills of the world. Wow, I say I want to avoid satire, but it seems to be central to the way I think. I think the reason I want to avoid satire is that I don't feel like I have the answers, and I also loathe when authors like Ayn Rand put their satire on a pedestal of pretense. I suppose the type of satire I want is the kind that shows the complexity of world problems, rather than one that attempts to propose a single clean solution. The solution lies in the decisions made by each of us, everyday. 

There is an energy crisis, and a financial crisis, because of the way we all chose to live, not because it's inevitable. That doesn't make the solution clear cut, but it does shift the responsibility out of the hands of evil giants, into the hands of each individual. I suppose that is the message I don't mind, as satire. Truman chooses to stand for something, he chooses not to comply, but there is no analog for that action in the real world. It is a symbol of the power we have to choose. Like Alice having the courage to cut off the head of the Jabberwocky, it's not an analogous monster, it's about the courage, and the power of choice itself. We each must discover the choices we are capable of making. The choices put before us. 

I like the political aspects of Dune, but I don't want politics to be as central to my story. I like the story of Last Exile. The two main characters are just children thrown into the middle of political battles much bigger than themselves. 

I would like to create a political climate that isn't clear cut. This is what appeals to me about Canada. It's not apparent what is the right and best thing to do.




A war is being fought over plans to build a deep space portal. A huge amount of water is proposed to be taken from Baba, past Pleach, to outer parts of the system. There is a big secret idol in the frozen wasteland. The goal is to take that idol through Athos, to the large gate, and launched into space. It’s basically a plan to go die in deep space, but fueled by pride, lies, status, and power. 

Mercea was discovered during a time of extreme unrest. Robbers were taking over cities all over Baba, but the robbers, though aggressive and numerous, were less advanced. Civilized people in Baba discovered how to travel to Mercea, then a rough place to live, and started sending robbers there to do the labor required to later settle there. The labor was about warming the seas through drilling, and taking seeds and animals there. It was an undertaking by the powerful people of Baba, who wanted a paradise to settle in. The porters were originally guards, who became compassionate, and were deceived by the Robbers. The robbers were able to escape into the jungles, and developed deadly martial arts. The lockports were barricaded, and the two worlds separated. Eventually the robbers settled into tribes, and became more peaceful. The powerful on Baba decided to reclaim the land by military force. The robbers were subjugated. They were first messengers for the Powerful, due to their speed, but later became pilots because of their keen eyes and fast reflexes. The military on Mercea grew into a bunch of drunks, because the Powerful were overly concerned about security, and gave the military a lot of surplus. They had natives as pilots, and all they had to do was guard a few hearty factions, and the lockport entrances. The planet became mostly about 4 groups. The Powerful, the military, the pilots, and the rebel factions. The Powerful and the military started using their own people as messengers, but relied on the natives to fly the messengers around. So the new messengers were basically pointless, except as a way to supposedly keep messages safe, and to look like they were still busy doing stuff. 

Eventually the Powerful started mingling with the Guild, and more and more invited the Guild to Mercea. The Guild were more inclined to use the lighter gravity to hone skills of movement, rather than as a relief from effort. The military eventually became more under the rule of the Gulid, and the Powerful became more like the royalty of today. The Once Powerful maintained their position of significance by being an essential part of obtaining status. 

These balances of power happen with varying degrees at different locations on the planet. But due to climate, happen much more homogeneously than on Baba. Baba has a small habitable zone. These are not bustling planets. Baba is like Alexander’s Empire, size-wise. And Mercea is like India. 

A status symbol in this world, is to own large pointless machines for doing simple tasks (like Rube Goldberg). It’s pure opulence. 


Briggers are the robbers. 

Orthodox Porters are called Old Watchmen. This is a play on words with the Golden Watch Makers of the Everlasting Fountain. 

A very patient man, who was the first professor of The Fountain, started an organization called The Font of the Timepiece-makers. Originally The Fountain was discovered by vibrating gold rhythmically over many years, which could also be used to resonate water, which allowed for the creation of the lockports, which the Powerful were more interested in, lacking the patience required to possibly experience The Fountain. Professors of The Fountain made time-pieces for vibrating gold, which was a process as involved as growing a bonsai tree, requiring years of training and concerted effort. They were eventually called Golden Watch-makers. And later, Old Watchmen. 

Watchmen call them timepieces, but more generally they are called watches. 

Old Watchmen were patient waiters. They sat watch over the lockports. There were years of inactivity when the lockports were inactive. They weren’t idle

Porters were well known for keeping absolutely exact time, which was necessary in lockport travel, and helpful for captains. Lockports were better timed than train stations. Porters stopped making the timepieces when it was discovered that one could bathe in the fountain, using resonated water, rather than resonated gold. The younger generation took the easier route. Once the technique was perfected, resonating water only took a couple of hours. 

Porters can only bathe in the fountain, using water, if they remain on the lockport islands. Truman stays there so he can marry Judith, since he himself had already had the patience to make a working timepiece at the very young age of 23. Most of the Old Watchmen worked for 20 years, and were at least 40, before making a working timepiece. Truman had done it in 10, starting at age 13, due to extreme focus on the task. 

He made a timepiece for Judith, which took him 7 years. But by that time they had children, so he started making more—not as a means of escape, but rather as a matter of orthodoxy—but other demands, and other things to build had slowed him down. He would not be able to give them their timepieces until they were adults. Judith takes the timepiece with her when she leaves, telling herself that she will still bathe in the fountain, but soon abandons porter practices, and gives the timepiece to Alice, on a whim.

Mara can make the timepieces sturdy. The timepieces were originally mostly gold, but later many of the parts were replaced with sturdier metals. A timepiece of mara only has two inner surfaces of gold, protected by the mara. These watches are almost indestructible. 

Traveling from planet to planet is traditionally only done as a rite of passage at 14, and then again as part of a marriage ceremony. 



The first watchmen are two great men and one woman, they are like prophets and great patriarchs.  They were great enough to conquer the veil between dimensions, to travel to the other side and back again, and they offer immortality on the other side to all who die.  Porters believe in the seemingly supernatural claims, while the rest of the galaxy just believes they were great scientists and inventors with eccentric delusions.  They discovered the technology that powers the gates. 
Even non-traditional porters have a limited belief in the supernatural aspects of the gates, because of the occurrences they witness in their job. The Mother Fountain is the divine feminine, the central fountain, she is deep pool below, but she is also a fountain because she reaches out.
Porter theology is not central to the story, but has a depth that seeps out sometimes. Prayer is called “bathing in the fountain”.  When Judith doesn’t spend time bathing in the fountain, she is weakened against the phenomena, but she doesn’t notice because she spends more time in her fantasy and less time fighting, subtly rationalizing.

Truman is a conductor
Judith is a sentinel 

Lockport Conductor and Lockport Sentinel, are the official titles. Porter and Watchmen are relaxed terms, referring to the religious culture around lockports. Watchmen were traditionally men. Porter is a genderless term. 

given the colloquial name “porters” which is used in a teasing manner.  

Porters are the type of people who... is such a false and prejudiced statement. Porters have a culture, but prevalent culture doesn't completely form people. It's noteworthy though, when someone actually deviates from their culture. Those are the people I write about. 


The most widely spread stories regarding the porter's superstitions are those regarding the Porters' practice of "Bathing in the Fountain". It was an act of prayer for Porters. Porters believed that it was their prayers that brought mana to be gathered and used to form their world. The gathering of mana was excepted as a normal part of porter life, it was the source of the mana that was disagreed upon. Porters believed it they came from The Fountain, and the others believed that mana was a byproduct of the gate, or some said that mana was like Phenoms, it was thought to be drifting into the ports from distant parts of the universe. 


The Fountain is how one communes with the Great Mother. 

Orthodoxically the porters believed in 3 fountains, but eventually settled on just communing with the Mother Fountain. 

Vibrations. Frequencies. Dials. Levers. Animals. Corsets. Hats. Ore. Sailing ships. Machines. Tubes. Highly polished Rube Goldberg machinery, as status symbols. Extreme tides. Balloons. Stars. Telescopes. Pulleys. Wax. Color theory. Musical resonance. Nomads. Loners. Undersea adventure. Dialects. Magnifiers. A traveling circus. Martial arts and movement. Firelight. Nature. Gears. Clocks. Instruments. Hand finishes. Intricate models. Homemade and well cared for vehicles. Manual processes, rather than automated.

What kind of ispectiscope does Truman have?

Truman watches the lockport as a Conductor. He watches the progress of the crossing as a duty. 

Conductors keep lighthouses. Which are focused beams of light that the ship captains keep themselves aligned with. It causes complications if ships wander. 

Crossing ships can send birds while still within a certain range. The birds appear to be a blur, then quickly flying in place,  then the wings slow to a normal pace when the cross into normal time to get to the crossing Conductor.

It watches for light alignment, and for birds. 

There is a room in the  lamphouse, . It sends a focused beam of light at the ships and there is a scope Conductors look into to, to watch the ships lights. The ship flashes a light at given intervals. 

Conductor have the power to recall a ship, right up until the time meridian of the trip. Birds must be sent in the first or last quarters of the trips. 

There are different lamp signals:
- Sending bird
- Everything ok
- Reverse the trip

Name of Setting

	Role in Story:	

	Related Characters:	

	Season:	

	Unique Features:	

	Description:	

	Sights:	
	Sounds:	
	Smells:	

	Notes:	

Athos radiograph

Infrastructure heavy telegraph via radio. Text is typed at one location, and printed by typewriter hammers on paper at a second location. It travels at the speed of radio. 
 


There are symbols on the watch that change according to different combination of the gears. The gears are based on porter Mathematics. Every watch has unique symbols, and are the product of inspiration. As the watch is build, each symbol is written at intervals along the way. The watchmaker tries to gather all the love they have felt from The Fountain during the time of that portions construction, and gather them into a symbol that will come into their mind, as they ponder those things. The symbols then hold meaning, but are abstract and ethereal. And it is the pondering of the combinations of symbols in their various cycles that guild them. Without a watch, they do this process of gathering the symbols, but only recording them on paper, and looking over them from time to time, ideally after a significant bathing. 

Every lockport has a literal fountain, this is where porters bathe, without a watch. Truman's family has watches, but the children accept the orthodoxy at varying levels. 

While bathing in The Fountain, porters see a tiny glow. It's easy to deny it, and write it off as imagination, especially when one is out of tune with the love of The Mother. 

Longshoremen load and unload ships. 


The watch has a hierarchy of gears. On one side is the primary gear. This is the gear of communion. The other side has many many parts, they are the spindles of instruction from the Mother Fountain, including time and altitude. Without communion, the spindles stop functioning. Communion winds the watch. Sometimes in an attempt to commune, it doesn't work. It seems somewhat unpredictable when it will work. Porters believe it is sincerity that winds it, most people believe it is kinetic energy, or possibly gate energy. When Alice gets her watch from Judith, it begins to work due to Alice's sincerity. She asks Judith how it works, Judith just says she doesn't know. Sarcastically, she says "depends on whether you ask a dead watchman or not." This is what prompts Alice to read about old watchmen. 

Truman's large music box can be programmed with songs on sheets, put in play order, around a large drum. There are percussion and stringed instruments of different sorts. Songs are programmed like a type press. Truman is deathly shy about dancing in public. He tries, but Judith finally lets him off of the hook because she is embarrassed by his stumbling. Eventually she dances with an instructor, regularly as her partner. She is an exceptional dancer, with real grace. 

Alice doesn't think the watch is working until she hears a very faint ticking. 

When Truman is alone with Abigail, he talks about the workings of things, because no one else cares to listen. The reader hears about some things this way. It bonds them. He feels safe talking with Abigail, even if not with others. Summer secretly feels slightly jealous. Still, Truman is more about doing, than saying. 

Judith's finds a sunken ship. She keeps it to herself. She uses it as a place for her fantasies to grow. 

It's out past the reef.

She collects things from travellers and puts them there. 

Athos is a spherical ocean, with an island, where Truman's family lives as Porters. Porters keep the lockports. 

The water is held together by gravity. The island floats, but is counterweighted by an exceptionally heavy foot. It's like a hammer. The center of gravity is not the center of it's shaft. It's nearer the head. If you were to suspend that hammer in a giant sphere of water, holding itself together. The handle of the hammer would project from one side.

It's called The Hammer, and it keeps Athos in synchronous orbit. It's like the port is a tide so high that it made a droplet in space. 

They have drastic tides on the moon. The hammer used to be tethered to the moon. They used the strength of the tide to lift the hammer. Then they weighted the hammer to rise. Huge engineering project.



Judith's separate apartment is the boathouse. It's on the treehouse side of the island. There is a floating walkway that leads out to it. It's anchored, and floating.

There is an opening in the floor of the boathouse where Judith mounts her squid.

This is the same boathouse which Truman is taken from before his mother’s funeral. 

The pound is the area of the lock where the boats are lowered. The pound has a dock that leads into the great hall. 

When the pound water is lowered, there are small waterfalls, where they purposefully let water trough. 

At the top of the grand stairs is the observation which overlooks the ocean and out to the stars. 

Overlooking the dock is a control station, above the great hall, opposite the observation platform. 

The controls for the dock are on a catwalk like system overhanging the lock and the dock. This is where Truman works. 

Opposite of the dock, is a great wall, and behind the wall is the treehouse. 

They take the catwalk home. At the top of the great wall is the entryway to their house. The entryway has windows which allow you to look at all the ground below their tree. 

It's like a safe deck above the jungle floor. A central spiral staircase leads to their livings space. Their living space is small. Each person has their bunk area. Then there is the hydroponic garden, kitchen and greenhouse. It's an island kitchen among a greenhouse and hydroponics. 

Besides the formal functions in the great hall, there are also shows that come through. It's like the circus. An outside group that sets up the great hall and observation deck like a carnival. 

The carnival is a jester show. The Tragic. They allow the wealthy to point the finger of scorn, at the tragedy of the less fortunate, rather then offering their hand to the down trodden. They are a fiercely loyal theater troop. 



| Created : Jul 23, 2011 11:22 AM | Style : Background9, Font5, Size16 | Tags : pound,observation platform,great hall,control station,great wall,the catwalk,treehouse,the tragic |

There is a great hall, like grand central station for the gate. The have social functions there and a market just off to one side. Social functions vary from one traveling company to an other. Judith gets caught up in the formal ones. 

There is a grand staircase. The market is surrounded in reef. The windows lookout into the reef, like giant port holes, it's below the stairs. Opposite the stairs are the doors to the pound dock.

| Created : Jul 23, 2011 11:12 AM | Style : Background9, Font14, Size18 | Tags : great hall,grand staircase,market,reef,pound,dock |

There is the terrace, the kitchen house, the suspended master bed. 


The kitchen house is a greenhouse in the treehouse. It is a hydroponic garden, with a kitchen as an island in the middle. 

The hydroponics have sliding ladders. Like old libraries have. All of the children know how to garden. 

Summer and Truman do most of the cooking. 



The terrace is on the treehouse side of the great wall. It is connected to the great wall, but also to a main branch of the tree. Above the terrace, is the mezzanine. The kitchen house is on the mezzanine. The kitchen house is supported by a different branch. The mezzanine is not like a giant marble thing, like at the JSMB. It's more like a barn loft. The mezzanine is the hub of the home. You exit by way of the terrace, if you are going over the wall to the lockport station. 

They also have another exit. Opposite of the mezzanine, in the kitchen house, is an elevator. This is the way to the boathouse.


Athos is in a zone of it's galaxy that has a high concentration of elements that make the habitable zone much wider

All planets and stars in the system are in synchronous orbit arch along a Fibonacci spiral. They dont really think in terms of orbit, the orbs are like rungs on a ladder, in the sky. Not a single sun, but a crescent of orbs in the sky. 

Their habitable zones are not tied to poles. 

(Re: Many worlds theory. I think we have been so bitter about not finding other life in the solar system that we can't help but  imagine a small habitable zone. )

Titan-class passenger liner


The phenoms come in many forms. Looking like beetles, locusts, birds, fantasy beasts, jellyfish.

phenomena — are considered a mysterious side effect of conical doors, but porters believe that they are created by the hearts axis of those who approach the gate.  






There were a series of locks leading from the sea level, up into the pound of the main gate which led to Athos. On Athos, the ships entered the pound, and then left the same way. The locks were like pieces of a watch. Each supporting the others and necessary for the whole to work. 

There were many parts to the pocketwatch Truman was working on. Each piece would take him quite some time to make. He was working on a small cam, that when turned, would slide open a little door, allowing light through in a very specific pattern. The cam rotated around an axel, but it was intentionally not an even round circle around the axel. It was larger on one side, and smaller on the other. So as it turned it created a sort of controlled wobble. That wobble that happened with each turn of the cam, would push a small lever out and then tension on the lever from a spring would bring it back on the counter-wobble. It turned the force of a evenly turning axel into a force that could move a lever in smooth regular and even time. 

Peter was working on a machine himself. With many elaborate parts. He only worked on it with his own hands from time to time, when resources were tight, and he didn’t want to halt the building for some reason. He hired people to do it for him, mostly. Experts in status contraptions. The only significance to these machines which Peter owned, was that they showed his ability to own them. Their construction, care and mantainence could only be had by an eliete class of people. Peter enjoyed showing people his contraptions, and asking them about theirs. 

Peter lied in his bed, thinking. The admiral had corrected him infront of some crew members. He replayed the scene over and over in his head. He stared off into the room, at no particular spot. He could see the flames from the lamps flickering and swaying as many points of light, reflecting off of the brass items in the room. He watched the brass knob on one corner post of his bed, just higher up than his own eye. In the shiny sphere, he could see almost all the lamps’ flames at once. This is generally where he would look when staring at nothing in particular. Peter wanted to extinguish the lamps. It was time for darkness and sleep. 

He reached next to him and used his full arm in a motion to pull down a big lever, with a red handle. The sequence of  

Time is measured from the time a catastrophic rise in the oceans on Baba, began to receed. Most people died in The Rise. As the water lowered, nomadic tribes moved toward the equator. Three major tribes had each kept their own reconing of the days since the water began to receed, and when those tribes came together, after a brief war, they made a peace agreement, and decided on a common date, based roughly on an average of the three. Most civilization on Baba is concentrated in an area the size of Alexander the Great’s empire. 

(On earth, the retreat of the glaciers at the end of the last Ice Age was about 12,000 BC. Alexandar was 300 BC. There was about 11,700 years between.)

Porters and others believe there were people on Baba before the rise. The prevailing wisdom is that they were brought by extra-terrestrials. 



The stadard reconing of a year is based on a 340.3 day cycle of Baba’s orbit around Vectra. 
Platan orbits Baba in 81 days. (8 x 10-day weeks)
Lara orbits Baba in 0.7 days — sometimes twice a day, faster than our moon

(the tides are complex)

The entire Vectran system uses Baba’s reconing as a standard, because the Mercean sky isn’t as dominated by Vectra, and Baba is the home planet. 


PART 1

Born — Year 11,700.

Age 5 — The death of Truman’s mother, which he is suprisingly unaffected by. Truman’s early childhood, like Vincent. His discovery of, and love for, books. His escape into playing in a world of predictable machines, and learning all about them. He gets very engrossed in a specific fantasy series he reads (like Oz or Alice). (I appeal to the reader’s own sense of intellectual curiosity, and superiority, as well as prime them for the joy of entering a fantasy world.) Truman is oblivious to the very hard work required by his father in supporting the family. Tactile. Texture. 

Age 8 — Truman’s childhood studying at the Fountain House. He learns numbers, he learns how the gates work. He learns the rules of orthodox porters. He learns the theology. Something needs to motivate the reader through this section. 

Age 13 — Truman’s continued schooling, which he is mostly uninterested in. Makes friends with Marcus. Truman’s obsession with making things. Truman’s success in building things. Truman gives up fantasy for porter history.  He learns the history of the Watchmen. The inklings of a much larger political world, discussed in school, that’s happening outside Truman’s inner-world. 

Age 14 — Truman rows across an entire sea to become a watchman (before ports, before even sails, there was rowing). Truman begins making the watch.

Age 17 — Truman is mostly uninterested in girls. Forms a fleeting 6-month friendship with a very curious, friendly, adventurous, whimsical, tomboyish, 1o year old red-headed girl. It’s Alice, but the reader and Truman don’t know it. She has a strong nickname. People are teasing her with it, but she just adopts it entirely. Thy are both teased and misunderstood. 

Age 20 — Truman is globally recognized, attracting Judith’s attention. Detracting him from what he loves. Truman’s romance with Judith begins. Inklings of Judith’s over-active sense of Romance as she paints Truman in her mind, and grooms him in reality. 

Age 21 — Truman becomes caretaker of Athos. Marcus is his sentinal, and old schoolmates.

Age 23 — (Alice (16 ^7) leaves her home seeking out adventure and autonomy.)

Age 24 — Truman and Judith get married. Truman gives Judith the watch.

Age 25 − Summer’s birth. Peter’s birth. Expansion of the treehouse. 

Age 30 — Birth of the Twins. Calvin and Abigail. After 7 years on her own, Alice’s (~25 ^5) second encounter with Truman (23 years later for him, 28 years later for her). She recognizes Truman as her childhood friend, but can’t share it with Truman. She is stirred, but not changed. He doesn’t notice her. 

Age 31 — Judith finds the shipwreck, and her fantasy begins as she seeks to escape the reality of the twins.

Age 32 — Truman’s third encounter with Alice (~29 ^4). He’s unaffected. She is permanently changed. Her hair is bleached white. 

Age 34 — Judith moves to the boathouse, creating great family tension. Lucy is called in to help care for the struggling reef. Summer starts cooking meals and learning how to take care of Abigail by herself.

Age 36 — Judith leaves aboard a great ship. Twins are 6. Summer is 11. Truman carries on. Marcus returns as sentinel. Lucy has a big heart and tries to comfort Truman, and he confides in her as he struggles with deep pain. There is a tension in their obvious incompatabilites, as well as their temporary codependance. A forced peace. A false resolution. 


PART 2

Age 37 — Alice’s fascination with Ammon, and his stories about the Watchmen. Judith gives Alice the watch. Alice’s conversion.

Age 38 — Truman and Alice’s first flirtation. Her hair is red again (~36 ^2). 

Age 42 — Summer leaves at age 17 to Sentinal school. She is much more mature than Truman was at 17. Seeks to be like her mother. Truman re-discovers his childhood friend, Alice. They begin a true friendship. 

Age 48 — Calvin moves to a hospital on the surface at the age of 18. Truman is left with only Abigail. Judith turns Summer against Truman, by sharing her well established, and now embelished, justifications for leaving. 

Age 49 — Romance with Alice begins. Both are healthy and active people. They do not live together, but see each other regularly. 

Age 55 — Truman marries Alice. (the last hopeful rise). There is a physical relationship between them, but no children between them. Alice solidifies Truman’s faith in his own decision making. 

Age 56 — Truman defies the federations and refuses to open the gate. The Idol propels itself into space. (false climax?) Truman is forced from Athos and taken to a prison on Baba to await trial. Alice cares for Abigail. Athos is given to Peter’s control. (the pit before the climax). A season of peace for the world. 

Age 57 — Abigail dies under Alice’s best efforts to care for her. Imprisioned, Truman is unable to see her. Judith is alone and betrayed, and feebly attempts to re-enter Truman’s life through letters. 

Age 58 — Truman’s trial.  (tension climax) He is found guilty, but is unexpectedly given a light sentence due to the outcome of his actions. 

Age 59 — Truman regroups and begins a job on Baba, as a blacksmith, making weapons for Summer. She is at first distant, but softens toward him. This is a seemingly small, but ulimately priceless, triumph. Alice gets something material she’s always wanted (false resolution)

Age 64 — Bed-ridden and surrounded by contraptions, Peter gives a decomissioned, and no longer prominent, Athos back to Truman for the cost of a few contraption widgets. Truman and Alice retire on Athos, and find a rhythm of happiness. (resolution) Truman gives Alice a wonderful , warm, and beautiful Anniversary. The wars among nations are stirring again. The water crisis remains. Peter still has influence, but is tuned out, who knows what becomes of him. Truman’s predictibilty; Beauty, love, commitment, honesty, and the fruits of hard work stretch out to the horizon. 


- He grows in consiousness
- Growth is explianed as being apart from time, expanding consiousness
- Henry wants to dominate and be the only consiousness
- Henry finds himself alone basking in pleasure and narcisism 
- Henry changes his subjective world to embrace vulnerability
- Henry builds worlds
- Henry finds Truman
- Henry envisions the new epoch

This is the story he tells, by telling Truman’s story. It is his own awakening, which he then codifies in order to share with the collective. 

Henry has two audiences. Mankind, and the collective.

His entries are less a comentary on Truman’s story, and more a loosely connected unfurling of a new science. 

The plot is the hardest part for me. Most of the plot I’ve written is about relationships, and I just don’t think it is compelling enough to be the main drving plot. Bonfire of the Vanities is a cool model. There are human relationships that are central to the storytelling, but the greater story of the financial giants is central as well.

There are Truman’s relationships. I have a strong idea about those.

There is the Idol, it’s danger and pointlessness at best. And truman’s defiance and trial, which is quite central.

There is the health and fate of Athos Island. 

There is Henry, and the theme he’s trying to share: that life is experiences, and love and belief are real things, worthy of primacy. Henry appeals to the Righteous Mind. But it turns out to be a little bit twisted, that he would allow suffering for his own amusement. If life is experiences, then his experiment is that of creating pain, negative experiences, for his own satisfaction. It is his television program. Perhaps it takes Omythreal to call attention to this. 

There is Truman’s relationship with his children. 

I need to find a plot in the warring tribes/nations. Find the arch. 

I have several sub-plots, but I’m not convinced that my central plots are strong enough. 


The Fountainhead (The struggle to honor individualism above all else)
Bonfire of the Vanities (The uselessness of being driven by pride and greed)
Dune (Usel rises up to be a saviour)
Do Androids Dream Of Electric Sheep (Hunting down robots, until questioning it all)
Farenheit 451 (A quest hiding from the law to save books)

Maybe a strong central plot, and focusing on it, is what cheap fiction does. The triumph of steadiness, the uselessness of coveteousness, and the reality of our own experience isn’t too shabby. I need to get over this hurdle. I need to follow my own advice to Taio and just write. I have the framework. I will discover more along the way. And I do have some darlings that need killing. 


This is how a coward thinks, I ....

Vs

I was a coward. 


I want to potray the feeling I had around Jessie and her family with Truman and his family. But mostly after Judith leaves. I want Judith's tension to be apparent by its absence. 

I NEED TO KNOW HOW EACH CHARACTER DEVELOPS, NOT JUST WHO THEY ARE.
I don’t want the characters to be archetypal — they are more like the conflicts in Battlestar Galactica: not cut and dry, but hard to figure out, and narrowly walking some line of personality/moral distinction. 

Move forward.
Go ahead and name things. Define things. Explain things. Write scenes. 
Nothing is permanent, and it’s better to have the fodder. I may be surprised what my intuition provides if I give myself permission to write what comes to mind. 
Just like the in photography: take the shot. Decide later if it’s any good. I will be rewriting to the very end. Fundamental things will probably change as I near completion. 
Move forward. 

Remember style style style, don't go for realism, even though it's tempting to think that way


JRR Tolkien had an amazing amount of backstory and setting, and yet, as George Lucas said, it’s not the focus. It merely provides a believable and rich backdrop for the actual story telling. Both Star Wars and The Lord of the Rings have rather iconic archetypal stories. 

When I think of explaining the intricate details of a setting, I think of Robert Jordan, and his discriptions of the places traveled. They are rich and details, but not overly wordy. 

Staging a scene
- Know the weather and time of day
- Let the rhythm set the mood
- Develop the secondary characters beyond what’s written 
- Remember voice over word choice or propriety 

How do I present things that I want the reader to see in relation to earth. Such as gravity. 

Listening to Mister Pip, I want to write at a human level. Human doesn’t mean romantic. Human is pain, and not understanding things. Human is small moments strung together into ties that last. 

There is something to be said for just writing without a bigger picture in mind. As much as I love Budge's book, it's heavy in translation, and is hard for many to appreciate because of it. I feel a need to read it several times. 

I think many of the other great books I've read obtain their greatness indirectly. You follow a journey of a character, and their development, maybe even just through the seemingly mundane, but there is some thread deeper than all of that. That's the thread that snaps when going through the lockports, in the story. The journey moves along, and so goes the story of the passengers, but in the gate, the string which is the story, snaps and recoils into something more sinister. They are separated from their journey, and they forget. 

I need to start writing. The best ideas have come when I just write. I need to trust myself to do so, and not worry about too much yet. It's like I'm anxious that I'll accidentally release a book with no plot and no structure. I don't think that's possible. I just need to write, be willing to 'kill my darlings', as writers say, and then pan for gold among the words. 

I am so worried about appealing to the brains of people saturated with video games and 3D movies, that I wont let myself write detailed descriptions, or spend anytime setting things up. 




Theres a point where the fiction gets so cool, that you just don't care if it's entirely outside our current scientific model. Thats when you know it's good. 

There is a group with a creation myth of the entire universe being the snail that ate the nothingness. They feast on snails which are abundant. 

It's okay to be whimsical sometimes. 



 I am not making a analogy with the gospel; I am just putting some of my strange theories out there.  I am definitely not preaching.  Even when it comes to the importance of the family, I am not preaching, I am illustrating. 

Why research it? Why not tell a story? How many readers will say, "Fake, lame." Geeks. But they will love saying it. They will relish being able to say that. 